The President. A special group of people. Very special to me, very important. And I want to thank you all for being here and for your work on behalf of our Nation's veterans, our great, great people, our veterans.

We're all united by a very common mission: We will protect those who protect us. I've been saying that a lot over the last 2 years at rallies and speeches. We will protect those who protect us, and that's just starting, because I think the veterans have not been treated fairly. And David and a group of brilliant, brilliant doctors and businessmen are forming a Board, and you've got the most talented people that I've ever seen working with you. This is—no more games going to be played at the VA.

And I want to thank David, your Secretary—your new Secretary, who's going to be so outstanding. I think he actually passed a hundred to nothing. [Laughter] When I heard that vote I said, where did that come from? [Laughter] A hundred to nothing, right? Passed a hundred to nothing—for bringing your vision, experience and determination to the crucial task of reforming the VA and ensuring care for our returning heroes and warriors.

And tonight I'm having a major meeting with some of the people that we put on a Board. Ike Perlmutter is an amazing man: Marvel, Disney; he's one of the great, great businessmen of our time, and others—we're having a meeting tonight at what we call affectionately the southern White House. [Laughter] Seems to be the most convenient location. Everybody always wants to go to the southern White House. So are you going to be at that meeting? You heard about it, right? It's going to be great—all about the VA.

The VA's mission statement is engraved in the plaques outside its headquarters. It reads: "To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan." And that was stated by Abraham Lincoln. That was Lincoln's pledge—called Lincoln's pledge. But for too many veterans, this hasn't been their experience at all. We've been reading horrible stories over the years, and already, David, I'm hearing, it's getting much better. A lot of improvements are being made, and it's going to change. And under my administration, it will change—very important to me.

During my campaign, I outlined a detailed plan to reforming veterans' care throughout the country, and we're working to put that plan into effect. And it's moving, I think I can say honestly, ahead of schedule.

As Commander in Chief, I will not accept substandard service for our great veterans. Every member of our Government is expected to do their utmost to ensure our veterans have the care that they're so entitled to, maybe more entitled to than anybody. And that hasn't been the way they were treated. But it is the way they're going to be treated.

So again, I want to thank you all for being here. It's a great honor. And maybe I'll ask David just to say a few words.

Secretary of Veterans Affairs David J. Shulkin. Sure. And thank you, Mr. President.

The President. Thank you. Secretary Shulkin. Mr. Vice President. I wanted to let you know the people in this room are some of the most dedicated, passionate people advocating for our veterans. And they are our partners in this quest to transform VA. And we really are so grateful that they're here with us standing as partners.

I also wanted to thank you, Mr. President, for the budget. I think that you've honored your commitment to showing that this country cares about the veterans, and you've given us the ability to make sure that we are able to care for them. I also wanted to tell you that yesterday the House passed an accountability bill, and we're very, very grateful for Chairman Roe's leadership and for the House's leadership in doing that. We're looking forward to the Senate bringing a bill forward.

And so, I think, as you said, we're committed to the plan that you outlined during your campaign to making the VA the type of organization that Americans want it to be, and we're well on our way to do that. So thank you very much.

The President. Well, that's great. And unrelated, we just had a meeting with probably 12 Congressmen, and it was an amazing meeting because they were all "noes," would you say, Mike? They were all "noes" or pretty much "no," and after 15 minutes—now, in all fairness, not 15 minutes, it was really actually about 4 or 5 days, but after 15 minutes, they went from "no" to all "yeses." So the health care looks like it's going to be in great shape. It's a great plan. The press doesn't give it a fair read, but I've heard that before. I mean, what are you going to do? The fake news.

But it's a great plan, or I wouldn't be involved with it. I wouldn't be involved. So you have 12 "noes"—and we have rejiggered it, and we've done some great things—but the "noes" in every single case went to a "yes." So that was a great honor, and health care looks like it's really happening, and it's going to be great.

Obamacare is dead. Some of you folks have yourselves—but you have family members that have suffered greatly under Obamacare. It's dying. It's just about on its last legs. If we did nothing, if we did absolutely nothing, Obamacare is dead. It will fail. In Tennessee, where I just left, half of the State has no insurance carrier—no carrier. It's gone. And they're going to leave the other half of the State very soon. You have that in many cases. Many States are down to one, and they'll end up with nothing.

So Obamacare is dead. We're going to come up with a replacement that's going to be fantastic. We have no support from the Democrats. That's why it's a little—we have to go interesting little routes. Instead of just approving it, it has to be approved in pieces, and that's working out really well. But we just got 12 very, very great people that went from "no" or "maybe"—but "maybe" leaning to "no"—right, Mike? And they all have given me a commitment that they're voting for our health plan—health care plan. So that was great.

I want to thank you all for being here, and let's talk. And the press will leave. Thank you very much.

My fellow Americans, this week, I traveled to Nashville, Tennessee to lay a wreath at the grave of Andrew Jackson, on the 250th anniversary of his birth. Jackson was an American hero: first, as a brilliant general whose crushing defeat of the British at New Orleans saved our independence in the War of 1812; and later, as the seventh President of the United States, when he fought to defend the forgotten men and women from the arrogant elite of his day. Does it sound familiar? The memory of his leadership lives on in our people, and his spirit points us to a better future.

This week, I also traveled to the Willow Run plant in Michigan. At that facility during the Second World War, the Ford Motor Company built not cars, but entire airplanes. At one point, workers there produced a complete B-24 Liberator every single hour. Hard to believe.

Today, on that site, is a new facility, where the cutting edge cars of the future will be tested. And this week, the old plant was filled once again with thousands of workers and engineers. I was there to share the good news for the American auto industry.

We announced we'll be reversing an 11th-hour executive action from the previous administration that was threatening thousands of auto jobs in Michigan and across America. And I mean threatening; it was very, very sad to see.

In fact, we are setting up a Task Force in every Federal agency to identify any unnecessary regulation that is hurting American businesses and American jobs. The first two job reports of my administration show that we've already added nearly half a million new jobs.

The days of economic surrender for the United States are over. For too long, special interests have made money shipping jobs overseas. We need a new economic model; let's call it the American Model. Under this model, we will lower the burden on American business, but in exchange, they must hire and grow America and American jobs. This will be a win-win for our companies and for our workers.

Let's buy American and hire American. Let's create jobs in America. Let's imagine new industries. And let's build a beautiful future together.

Among the workers building B-24 bombers at the Willow Run plant during World War II was one tough lady. You might have heard her: They called her Rosie the Riveter. And when Rosie's country called her, she answered the call. Rosie was famous for her toughness and her strength and for the words that were emblazoned above her famous image. It said very simply: "We can do it."

If Americans unite and find again within our Nation the soul of Rosie and the spirit of Jackson, I have no doubt that we can do it and do it like never before.

Thank you. Enjoy your week.

I want to thank Members of Congress, their staffs, and baseball fans across the country for supporting tonight's Congressional Baseball Game. This game is always an important moment for both parties to come together to support charity, build friendships, and celebrate our national pastime.

But as you all know, tonight's game has taken on a much deeper level of meaning, beyond anything that we would have thought. By playing tonight, you are showing the world that we will not be intimidated by threats, acts of violence, or assaults on our democracy. The game will go on.

I want to take a moment to send our thoughts, love, and prayers to Congressman Steve Scalise and his entire family. Steve is our friend, he's a patriot, and he is a true fighter. I know you all will be playing extra hard tonight for Steve.

We pray for all of the victims of this terrible crime who are still recovering, including Zachary Barth and Matt Mika, both of whom are respected and cherished by so many.

We also praise Special Agents Crystal Griner and David Bailey of the Capitol Police for their heroic deeds that saved so many lives. What a great job they did. And we thank all the members of the Alexandria Fire, Police, and Rescue.

In Washington, we have our disagreements. But we all agree that we are here to serve this nation we love and the people who call it home. That's the source of unity, and more than ever, we must embrace it.

So that on this special night, I leave you with three great American words that for generations have torn down barriers, built bridges of unity, and defied those who have sought to pull us apart.

Ladies and gentlemen: Let's play ball!

The President. I love the Greeks. Oh, do I love the Greeks. [Laughter] Don't forget, I come from New York. That's all I see is Greeks. They are all over the place. [Laughter]

Thank you very much, Reince. Very much appreciate it. Reince was the most successful leader the RNC—that's called the Republican National Committee—has ever had. And now, as my really terrific and hard-working Chief of Staff, he has really one of the number-one—and I guess you'd have to say, he's one of the top Greeks in the country. And I know a lot of them right in the audience; they're my friends.

And the list also includes, as you know, George Gigicos. [Applause] George. George is great. I said, make sure that microphone is absolutely perfect, George. He never lets me—the Director of White House Advance. And George Sifakis, where's George? And these guys are with me right from the beginning—the Director of the Office of Public Liaison. It's a great team. It's a great, great team. Can't do any better.

They helped organize this wonderful event with the Greek Archdiocese of America and so many local parishioners. And I want to thank you all. You're here, you're all over the audience. I want to thank you all.

Your Eminence and Father Alex, it is a true privilege to host you at the White House. I was deeply honored to have you both at my Inauguration—it was a great day—and I am grateful for your presence here today. I also want to thank you for awarding Reince and George the highest honor of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America: the Medal of Saint Paul.

To everyone in your youth choir who just performed, they were beautiful. I heard that music. [Applause] I heard that music. With such elegance and grace, you're amazing—you really are. Beautiful, beautiful sounds. I know you made your parents very proud. And you make all of us proud, right? Today we commemorate an event that we have marked with a national day of celebration for 30 years: Greek Independence Day. Very important. President Ronald Reagan started this wonderful tradition, and we are thrilled to continue it and always will. Greek Independence Day celebrates the rebirth of liberty for the Greek people. It commemorates the fight for the Greek independence that began on March 25, 1821. After nearly 400 years of outside rule, the Greeks longed to regain their sovereignty.

This love of freedom and democracy has formed a lasting bond between our two countries. It is a bond that has its origins in Ancient Greece, the birthplace of democracy.

American President James Monroe and the great American statesman Daniel Webster both supported Greece's struggle for independence. And it was a tough, tough struggle; you know that. Then-Representative Webster honored the role of Greece in forming civilization and said that "We, like the rest of mankind, are greatly her debtors."

In years to come, we don't know what will be required to defend our freedom, but we do know that it will demand great, great courage—a courage from all of us—and we will show it, and I have no doubt about that.

Drawing inspiration from our history and those who come before, we will rise to any occasion. We have a country that, as you know, has certain difficulties, has certain problems. We will solve those problems, and we will quickly solve those difficulties. Just watch.

I want to thank you all for coming to the White House today. We celebrate Greek history, and we applaud the tremendous contributions of your people to our beloved country.

May God bless you all. And with that, I would like to recognize His Eminence. Thank you very much. Thank you.

My fellow Americans, a new optimism is sweeping our country as we return power from Washington and give it back to the American people, where it belongs. For too long, American workers were forgotten by their government, and I mean totally forgotten. Their interests were pushed aside for global projects, and their wealth was taken from their communities and shipped across the world, all across the seas.

My administration has offered a new vision. The well-being of the American citizen and worker will be placed second to none, and, boy, do I mean second to none. Since day one, I have been fighting for the hard-working people of this country, and this week, we took historic action to continue delivering on that promise.

We did so in one of the many proud industrial towns of our Nation—Kenosha, Wisconsin—with the men and women of Snap-On, who make American tools for workers around the world. They were there, and they loved what they heard, and they loved what they saw.

In Wisconsin, I signed an Executive order to buy American and hire American. I took historic action to ensure that Federal projects are made with American goods and to keep American workers and companies from being cheated out of contracts by countries that break the rules and break every regulation in the book to take advantage of the United States. That's not going to happen anymore.

I also took action to reform our immigration system so that it puts the needs of American workers first. The duty of Government is to represent the citizens of the United States, and that is what we will do. Whether it's removing job-killing regulations, protecting our borders, or unleashing American energy, we are keeping our promises and delivering for the American worker.

During my visit, I talked about how America is a nation that honors work. We honor grit. We honor craftsmanship. We honor the skilled tradespeople who turn rock and steel and iron and cement into works of art and grace and beauty. There's tremendous talent there, believe me.

The wrench and ratchet are not only tools, but instruments that help build cities out of deserts and send ships across the ocean. And the tools of craftsmen and the masons are just as important as the tools of the doctor and the dentist or the CEO or even the tools of politicians—believe it or not—and their work is every bit as noble. They take pride in their jobs, and we take pride in them. No longer will the concerns of these hard-working Americans go unanswered.

By making government answer to our citizens, we are removing the limits on our future and setting free the dreams of our people. As long as we do this, optimism will continue to soar, hope will continue to spring, and this country we love will grow stronger and stronger day by day.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.

The President. Thank you. Shelley. Thank you very much. I guess they like what we're about to sign, huh? Right? I knew they were going to like this one. Well, thank you very much. I very much appreciate it. And thank you to our great Vice President, Mike Pence.

I'm thrilled that everybody could be here with us today. I want to give special thanks to Administrator Scott Pruitt, Secretary Ryan Zinke, and Secretary Rick Perry for your remarks. I told Rick, I said, run it the way you ran Texas—[laughter]—because this is going to be a great operation. And he did a great job, and we're honored to have all three. And I'm really honored to have our Vice President, because Mike Pence has been outstanding. Hasn't he been outstanding?

Together, this group is going to do a truly great job for our country. We have a very, very impressive group here to celebrate the start of a new era in American energy and production and job creation. The action I'm taking today will eliminate Federal overreach, restore economic freedom, and allow our companies and our workers to thrive, compete, and succeed on a level playing field for the first time in a long time, fellas. It's been a long time. I'm not just talking about 8 years; we're talking about a lot longer than 8 years. You people know it maybe better than anybody.

Thanks, as well, to the many distinguished Members of Congress who have taken the time to be here. I want to thank all of our industry leaders who are with us and who share our determination to create jobs in America, for Americans. And, Shelley, thank you very much also. I spotted you in the audience. Thank you.

That is what this is all about: bringing back our jobs, bringing back our dreams, and making America wealthy again.

I also want to thank the dedicated public servants who are with us this afternoon. You're doing important work to protect our health and public resources. So important.

Finally, I want to acknowledge the truly amazing people behind me on this stage: our incredible coal miners. We love our coal miners. Thank you, guys. Great people. Over the past 2 years, I've spent time with the miners all over America. They told me about the struggles they've endured. I actually, in one case, I went to a group of miners in West Virginia—you remember, Shelley—and I said: "How about this? Why don't we get together, we'll go to another place, and you'll get another job; you won't mine anymore. Do you like that idea?" They said: "No, we don't like that idea. We love to mine; that's what we want to do." I said, "If that's what you want to do, that's what you're going to do."

And I was very impressed. They love the job. That's what their job is. I fully understand that. I grew up in a real estate family, and until this recent little excursion into the world of politics—[laughter]—I could never understand why anybody would not want to be in the world of real estate. [Laughter] Believe me. So I understand it. And we're with you a hundred percent, and that's what you're going to do. Okay?

The miners told me about the attacks on their jobs and their livelihoods. They told me about the efforts to shut down their mines, their communities, and their very way of life. I made them this promise: We will put our miners back to work. We've already eliminated a devastating anticoal regulation, but that was just the beginning. Today I'm taking bold action to follow through on that promise. My administration is putting an end to the war on coal. Going to have clean coal, really clean coal. With today's executive action, I am taking historic steps to lift the restrictions on American energy, to reverse Government intrusion, and to cancel job-killing regulations. And by the way, regulations not only in this industry, but in every industry. We're doing them by the thousands, every industry. And we're going to have safety, we're going to have clean water, we're going to have clear air, but so many are unnecessary, and so many are job killing. We're getting rid of the bad ones.

One after another, we're keeping our promises and putting power back into the hands of the people. First, today's energy independence action calls for an immediate reevaluation of the so-called Clean Power Plan. Perhaps no single regulation threatens our miners, energy workers, and companies more than this crushing attack on American industry. Second, we are lifting the ban on Federal leasing for coal production. Third, we are lifting job-killing restrictions on the production of oil, natural gas, clean coal, and shale energy. And finally, we are returning power to the States, where that power belongs. States and local communities know what is best for them. They understand it. They get it. They've been doing it for a long time. It was taken away from them and not handled well. And they are the ones that we should now—and will now—empower to decide.

My action today is the latest in a series of steps to create American jobs and to grow American wealth. We're ending the theft of American prosperity and rebuilding our beloved country. We approved the permit to finally build the Keystone XL Pipeline and cleared the way to completion of the Dakota Access Pipeline—thousands and thousands of jobs.

We've already created a half a million new jobs in the first two jobs reports of my administration. And if you noticed today, Ford—great company—announced massive new spending on three big plants in the State of Michigan, a State which I love very much. Do you remember what happened in Michigan? [Laughter] Remember, November 8. Oh, that was an exciting Michigan evening. [Laughter] And Ford just made that announcement. That's a great announcement. It's a very important announcement. It means jobs, jobs, jobs.

We are going to continue to expand energy production, and we will also create more jobs in infrastructure, trucking, and manufacturing. This will allow the EPA to focus on its primary mission of protecting our air and protecting our water. Together, we are going to start a new energy revolution, one that celebrates American production on American soil.

We want to make our goods here instead of shipping them in from other countries. All over the world, they ship in, ship in—take the Americans' money, take the money, go home; take our jobs, take our companies. No longer, folks. No longer. We believe in those really magnificent words: Made in the U.S.A. Right, fellas?

We will unlock job-producing natural gas, oil, and shale energy. We will produce American coal to power American industry. We will transport American energy through American pipelines, made with American steel. Made with American steel. Can you believe somebody would actually say that?

This came up a little bit coincidentally when I was signing the pipeline deals. I'm all signing, I've got them done. And I said, folks, where do we get the steel? And they said, I think it's from foreign lands. I said, no good. Who makes it? Who makes those beautiful pipes for the pipeline? Sir, they're made outside of this country. I said, no more, no more. So we added a little clause—didn't take much—that you want to build pipelines in this country, you're going to buy your steel, and you're going to have it fabricated here. Makes sense, right? Doesn't it make sense, Bob? Think so. He knows. Together, we will create millions of good American jobs—also, so many energy jobs—and really lead to unbelievable prosperity all throughout our country. And Rick Perry is going to have a lot to do with that.

I want to just thank everybody in this room. You're all very special people. In particular, I want to thank the miners. You know, my guys, they'll get enough thanks. These people haven't had enough thanks. They've had a hard time for a long time.

[At this point, the President greeted and shook hands with a group of coal miners who were on the stage.]

They're tough-looking guys too. I'll tell you what—not going to mess around with this group, right?

All right. Thank you, fellas. I made my promise, and I keep my promise.

So I want to thank everybody in the room. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Come on, fellas. Basically, you know what this says? You know what it says, right? You're going back to work. That's what it says.

Participant. That's good.

The President. You're going back to work.

Ready?

Participants. We're ready.

[At this point, the President signed the Executive order and distributed some pens as gifts.]

The President. Okay. Come on. How about a miner? One of the miners. Who's the miner back there? Only a miner. [Laughter] Come on, fellas. You split it up. Cut it up—[laughter]. Come on, where's Ryan? Where's Ryan? Okay, Rick, you'll split that up with Ryan.

I want to thank everybody very much. This is a great honor today. Very special, special people. And you're going to see a lot of progress. And Shelley, thank you very much. We—you have been fantastic. Really fantastic. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.

The President. Thank you, everybody, and Mike Pence is going to be here in a few minutes. We miss Mike when he's not around. [Laughter]

So I want to thank the Members of the House Deputy Whip team. They're going to be very important over the next number of months. We have a great team, and we're going to have a lot of victories, a lot of wins, but we have a great team.

Together, we're going to do incredible things for the great citizens of our country. As I said during my joint address to Congress—and I think you mostly liked that, right? [Laughter]

Representative Kevin P. Brady. We loved that. [Laughter]

Participant. Liked it a lot.

The President. We're witnessing a renewal of the American spirit, a surge of optimism, and a new national pride, which is sweeping across the land. I see it—there's such spirit, whether it's for the business things we're doing or whatever. It's such spirit that we haven't seen in the country in a long time. Jobs are pouring back. You saw what happened with Exxon, where they just announced a massive jobs program. So we're going to have some fun.

Now, we have to remember, Obamacare is collapsing and it's in bad shape. And we're going to take action. There's going to be no slowing down. There's going to be no waiting and no more excuses by anybody. We're all now—I can probably say I'm a politician. [Laughter] Okay? I am a politician.

But we're going to get it done, and you're the leaders that really will get it done for all of us and for the American people. Obamacare is in very bad shape. I believe that if we wait 2 years, it will totally implode. It's really pretty much imploding now, Steve, when you think. But it will implode and people will be, like, please help us, please help us, and that will be the Democrats asking for help. They already are asking for help in the true sense of the word, because it's a disaster. The insurance companies are fleeing. Some States are up over a hundred percent in costs. The deductibles are through the roof—you don't even get to use it.

So we're going to do something that's great, and I'm proud to support the replacement plan, released by the House of Representatives and encouraged by members of both parties. I think really that we're going to have something that's going to be much more understood and much more popular than people can even imagine. It follows the guidelines I laid out in my congressional address—a plan that will lower costs, expand choices, increase competition, and ensure health care access for all Americans.

This will be a plan where you can choose your doctor. This will be a plan where you can choose your plan. [Laughter] And you know what the plan is—this is the plan. And we're going to have a tremendous—I think we're going to have a tremendous success. It's a complicated process, but actually it's very simple. It's called good health care.

So I want to thank you folks for being with us today, ladies and gentlemen. And we will do something really, really important and really good for the American people. I think it's going to go very quickly. I hope it's going to go very quickly. And as you know, after that, we work on the tax cut. We're going to be planning a major tax cut. I know exactly what we're looking at—most of us know exactly the plan. It's going to put our country in great shape, and we're going to reduce taxes for companies and for people, and I can use the word again—massively. It's going to be a big tax cut, the biggest since Reagan, maybe bigger than Reagan.

So I look forward—I really look forward to working on that, but we can't really get to that, unfortunately, because of the way your system works. We can't get to that until we take care of health care. So we'll take care of the health care. I appreciate your great support, and let's get it done.

Thank you. Thank you all. Fantastic. Thank you.

House Majority Whip Stephen J. Scalise. Well, Mr. President, thank you for having our Deputy Whip team to the White House. And thank you for your commitment on following through on what, to most Americans, is probably one of the most important promises that was made not only by you, but by all of us in getting this majority, both in the House and Senate and the White House, and that is rescuing the American people from the failures of Obamacare.

We've heard the message for years. We've seen the dramatically skyrocketing costs. You're seeing double-digit increases every year in most parts of the country in health premiums for families. Many families are seeing deductibles that rise above the $10,000 range, which means people don't have access to health care. People don't have the ability to choose their own doctor.

You talked about this the other night in just one of the best speeches I've heard from a President standing at that well in the House Chamber, when you addressed the Joint Session and gave an inspirational speech to the country laying out the things that need to happen and that you're going to do to get this country back on track, and to create jobs, and to secure America.

But one of the things you talked about is how it's wrong that unelected bureaucrats in Washington have the ability to tell you what you can and can't buy for your family in health care, one of the most personal decisions families make.

This bill finally starts the process of not only repealing Obamacare, but also replacing it with reforms that put patients back in charge of their health care decisions, that lower costs for families. Let them actually choose the decisions between them and their doctor, which are so personal.

And so as we start this process, the people in this room, the Chief Deputy Whips are the ones that are going to be working directly with Members to ultimately pass this bill to your desk, so that we can quickly provide that relief from Obamacare to the people of the United States.

And I know we are honored to have our former House colleague and now our Vice President of the United States, who has been involved in this fight from the beginning, as well, Vice President Mike Pence joining us, too.

Thank you, Vice President.

The President. Well, thank you very much, Steve. And again, we're going to work quickly. It's a great bill. We're going to have tremendous—I really believe we're going to have tremendous support. I'm already seeing the support—not only in this room, I'm seeing it from everybody. And I'm seeing it from the public. And they want Obamacare over.

I got elected to a certain extent—I would say, pretty good little chunk, based on the fact—repeal and replace Obamacare. And many of you people are in the same boat. Very important. So let's get it done.

Thank you all very much for being here. Thank you. Okay, thank you.

Thank you, Chris, for that kind introduction and for your tremendous work on behalf of our Second Amendment. Thank you very much. I want to also thank Wayne LaPierre for his unflinching leadership in the fight for freedom. Wayne, thank you very much. Great.

I'd also like to congratulate Karen Handel on her incredible fight in Georgia Six. The election takes place on June 20. And by the way, on primaries, let's not have 11 Republicans running for the same position, okay? [Laughter] It's too nerve-shattering. She's totally for the NRA, and she's totally for the Second Amendment. So get out and vote. She's running against someone who's going to raise your taxes to the sky, destroy your health care, and he's for open borders—lots of crime—and he's not even able to vote in the district that he's running in. Other than that, I think he's doing a fantastic job, right? [Laughter] So get out and vote for Karen.

Also, my friend—he's become a friend—because there's nobody that does it like Lee Greenwood. Wow. [Laughter] Lee's anthem is the perfect description of the renewed spirit sweeping across our country. And it really is, indeed, sweeping across our country. So, Lee, I know I speak for everyone in this arena when I say, we are all very proud indeed to be an American. Thank you very much, Lee.

No one was more proud to be American than the beloved patriot—and you know who I'm talking about—we remember on gatherings like today, your former five-term President, the late Charlton Heston. How good was Charlton? And I remember Charlton; he was out there fighting when maybe a lot of people didn't want to be fighting. He was out there for a long time. He was a great guy.

And it's truly wonderful to be back in Atlanta and back with my friends at the NRA. You are my friends, believe me. Perhaps some of you remember the last time we were all together. Remember that? [Laughter] We had a big crowd then too. So we knew something was happening. But it was in the middle of a historic political year and in the middle of a truly historic election. What fun that was: November 8. Wasn't that a great evening? Do you remember that evening? Remember that?

Remember they were saying, "We have breaking news: Donald Trump has won the State of Michigan." They go, "Michigan? How did that"—"Donald Trump has won the State of Wisconsin, whoa." But earlier in the evening, remember: Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, all the way up—we ran up the East Coast. And you know, the Republicans have a tremendous disadvantage in the electoral college; you know that. And tremendous disadvantage. And to run the whole East Coast, and then you go with Iowa and Ohio, and all of the different States. It was a great evening, one that a lot people will never forget—a lot of people. [Laughter] Not going to forget that evening.

And remember they said, "There is no path to 270." For months, I was hearing that. You know, they're trying to suppress the vote. So they keep saying it; so people say, you know, I really like Trump, he loves the Second Amendment, he loves the NRA; I love him, but let's go to the movie, because he can't win. Because they're trying to suppress the vote.

But they'd say—I mean, hundreds of times I heard—there is no—there's no route. They'd say it, "There is no route to 270." And we ended up with 306. So they were right: not 270, 306. That was some evening. Big sports fans said that was the single most exciting event they've ever seen. That includes Super Bowls and World Series and boxing matches. That was an exciting evening for all of us, and it meant a lot.

Only one candidate in the general election came to speak to you, and that candidate is now the President of the United States, standing before you again. I have a feeling that in the next election you're going to be swamped with candidates, but you're not going to be wasting your time. [Laughter] You'll have plenty of those Democrats coming over, and you're going to say, no, sir, no thank you—no, ma'am. Perhaps ma'am. It may be Pocahontas, remember that. [Laughter] And she is not big for the NRA, that I can tell you.

But you came through for me, and I am going to come through for you. I was proud to receive the NRA's earliest endorsement in the history of the organization. And today I am also proud to be the first sitting President to address the NRA Leadership Forum since our wonderful Ronald Reagan in 1983. And I want to thank each and every one of you, not only for your help electing true friends of the Second Amendment, but for everything you do to defend our flag and our freedom.

With your activism, you helped to safeguard the freedoms of our soldiers who have bled and died for us on the battlefields. And I know we have many veterans in the audience today, and we want to give them a big, big beautiful round of applause.

And like I promised, we are doing a really top job already—99 days—but already, with the Veterans Administration, people are seeing a big difference. We are working really hard at the VA, and you're going to see it, and you're already seeing it. And it's my honor. I've been telling you we're going to do it, and we're doing it. Thank you.

The NRA protects in our capitols and legislative houses the freedoms that our servicemembers have won for us on those incredible battlefields. And it's been a tough fight against those who would go so far as to ban private gun ownership entirely. But I am here to deliver you good news. And I can tell you that Wayne and Chris have been fighting with me long and hard to make sure that we were with you today, not somebody else with an empty podium. Because believe me, the podium would have been empty. They fought long and hard, and I think you folks cannot thank them enough. They were with us all the way, right from the beginning.

But we have news that you've been waiting for for a long time: The 8-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end. You have a true friend and champion in the White House. No longer will Federal agencies be coming after law-abiding gun owners. No longer will the Government be trying to undermine your rights and your freedoms as Americans. Instead, we will work with you, by your side. We will work with the NRA to promote responsible gun ownership, to protect our wonderful hunters and their access to the very beautiful outdoors. You met my son; I can tell you, both sons, they love the outdoors. Frankly, I think they love the outdoors more than they love, by a long shot, Fifth Avenue. But that's okay. And we want to ensure you of the sacred right of self-defense for all of our citizens.

When I spoke to this forum last year, our Nation was still mourning the loss of a giant, a great defender of the Constitution: Justice Antonin Scalia. I promised that if elected, I would nominate a Justice who would be faithful and loyal to the Constitution. I even went one step further and publicly presented a list of 20 judges from which I would make my selection, and that's exactly what we did.

And by the way, I want to thank, really, Heritage. And I want to thank also all of the people that worked with us. Where's Leo? Is Leo around here? Where is he? He's got to be here. Where is he? He has been so good. But from—and also from Heritage, Jim DeMint. It's been amazing. I mean, those people have been fantastic. They've been real friends. The Federalist people, where are they? Are they around here someplace? They really helped us out. I kept my promise, and now, with your help, our brandnew Justice—and he is really something very special—Neil Gorsuch, sits on the Bench of the United States Supreme Court. For the first time in the modern political era, we have confirmed a new Justice in the first 100 days. The last time that happened was 136 years ago, in 1881. Now, we won't get any credit for this, but don't worry about it; the credit is in the audience, right? The credit is in the audience. All of those people. They won't give us credit, but it's been a long time, and we're very honored.

We've also taken action to stand up for America's sportsmen. On their very last full day in office, the previous administration issued an 11th-hour rule to restrict the use of lead ammunition on certain Federal lands. Have you heard about that, folks? I'm shocked to hear that. You've all heard about that. Huh? You've heard about that. On his first day as Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke eliminated the previous administration's ammunition ban. He's going to be great. Ryan is going to be great.

We've also moved very quickly to restore something gun owners care about very, very much. It's called the rule of law. We have made clear that our administration will always stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement. In fact, countless members of law enforcement are also members of the NRA, because our police know that responsible gun ownership saves lives and that the right of self-defense is essential to public safety. Do we all agree with that?

Our police and sheriffs also know that when you ban guns, only the criminals will be armed. For too long, Washington has gone after law-abiding gun owners while making life easier for criminals, drug dealers, traffickers, and gang members. MS-13—you know about MS-13? It's not pleasant for them anymore, folks. It's not pleasant for them anymore. That's a bad group. Not pleasant for MS-13. Get them the hell out of here, right? Get them out.

We are protecting the freedoms of law-abiding Americans, and we are going after the criminal gangs and cartels that prey on our innocent citizens. And we are really going after them.

As members of the NRA know well, some of the most important decisions a President can make are appointments, and I've appointed people who believe in law, order, and justice. That is why I have selected as your Attorney General, number one, a really fine person, a really good man, a man who has spent his entire career fighting crime, supporting the police, and defending the Second Amendment. For the first time in a long time, you now have a pro-Second Amendment, tough-on-crime Attorney General, and his name is Jeff Sessions.

And Attorney General Sessions is putting our priorities into action. He's going after the drug dealers who are peddling their poison all over our streets and destroying our youth. He's going after the gang members who threaten our children. And he's fully enforcing our immigration laws in all 50 States. And you know what? It's about time.

Heading up the effort to secure America's borders is a great military general, a man of action: Homeland Security Director [Secretary]* John Kelly. Secretary Kelly, who used to be General Kelly, is following through on my pledge to protect the borders, remove criminal aliens, and stop the drugs from pouring into our country. We've already seen—listen to this; it's never happened before, people can't even believe it. And by the way, we will build the wall no matter how low this number gets or how high this goes. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it.

You know, they're trying to use this number against us because we've done so unbelievably at the borders already. They're trying to use it against us. But you need that wall to stop the human trafficking, to stop the drugs, to stop the wrong people. You need the wall. But listen to this: We've already seen a 73 percent decrease—never happened before—in illegal immigration on the southern border since my election—73 percent.

You see what they're doing, right? So why do you need a wall? We need a wall.

Audience member. Build the wall!

The President. We'll build the wall. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it. That's an easy one. We're going to build the wall. We need the wall.

I said to General Kelly, how important is it? He said, very important. It's that final element. We need the wall. And it's a wall in certain areas. You, obviously—where you have these massive physical structures, you don't need, and where you have certain big rivers and all. But we need a wall, and we're going to get that wall.

And the world is getting the message. They know that our border is no longer open to illegal immigration and that if you try to break in, you'll be caught, and you'll be returned to your home. You're not staying any longer. And if you keep coming back illegally after deportation, you will be arrested, prosecuted, and you will put behind bars. Otherwise, it will never end.

Let's also remember that immigration security is national security. We've seen the attacks from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino. Hundreds of individuals from other countries have been charged with terrorism-related offenses in the United States.

We spend billions and billions of dollars on security all over the world, but then we allow radical Islamic terrorists to enter right through our front door. That's not going to happen anymore. It's time to get tough. It's time we finally got smart. And yes, it's also time to put America first.

And perhaps—I see all of those beautiful red and white hats-—but we will never forget our favorite slogan of them all: Make America Great Again. All right?

Keeping our communities safe and protecting our freedoms also requires the cooperation of our State leaders. We have some incredible pro-Second Amendment Governors here at the NRA conference, including Governor Scott of Florida. Where is Governor Scott? Where is he? Great guy, doing a great job. Governor Bryant of Mississippi. What a wonderful place. Governor Bryant is here. Thank you. Governor Deal of Georgia. And we're also joined by two people that—well, one I loved right from the beginning; the other one I really liked, didn't like, and now like a lot again. [Laughter] Does that make sense? Senator David Perdue—he was from the beginning—and Senator Ted Cruz—like, dislike, like. Where are they? Good guys. Good guys. Smart cookies.

Each of these leaders knows that public officials must serve under the Constitution, not above it. We all took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and that means defending the Second Amendment.

So let me make a simple promise to every one of the freedom-loving Americans in the audience today: As your President, I will never, ever infringe on the right of the people to keep and bear arms. Never ever. Freedom is not a gift from government, freedom is a gift from God.

It was this conviction that stirred the heart of a great American patriot on that day, April, 242 years ago. It was the day that Paul Revere spread his Lexington alarm, the famous warning that "the British are coming, the British are coming." Right? You've all heard that, right? The British are coming.

Now we have other people trying to come, but believe me, they're not going to be successful. That I can tell you. Nothing changes, right, folks? Nothing changes. They are not going to be successful. There will be serious hurt on them, not on us. Next, came the shot heard around the world and then a ragtag army of God-fearing farmers, frontiersmen, shopkeepers, merchants that stood up to the most powerful army at that time on Earth. The most powerful army on Earth. But we sometimes forget what inspired those everyday farmers and workers in that great War for Independence.

Many years after the war, a young man asked Captain Levi Preston, aged 91, why he fought alongside his neighbors at Concord. Was it the Stamp Act? Was it the tea tax? Was it a work of philosophy? "No," the old veteran replied. "Then why?" he was asked. "Young man," the captain said, "what we meant in going for those Redcoats was this: We always had governed ourselves, and we always meant to" govern ourselves.

Captain Preston's words are a reminder of what this organization and my administration are all about: the right of a sovereign people to govern their own affairs and govern them properly. We don't want any longer to be ruled by the bureaucrats in Washington or in any other country, for that matter. In America, we are ruled by our citizens. We are ruled by each and every one of you.

But we can't be complacent. These are dangerous times. These are horrible times for certain obvious reasons. But we're going to make them great times again. Every day, we are up against those who would take away our freedoms, restrict our liberties, and even those who want to abolish the Second Amendment. We must be vigilant. And I know you are all up to the task.

Since the first generation of Americans stood strong at Concord, each generation to follow has answered the call to defend freedom in their time. That is why we are here today: To defend freedom for our children. To defend the liberty of all Americans. And to defend the right of a free and sovereign people to keep and bear arms.

I greatly appreciated your support on November 8, in what will, hopefully, be one of the most important and positive elections for the United States of all time. And to the NRA, I can proudly say I will never, ever let you down.

Thank you. God Bless you. God Bless our Constitution, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you, Chris, for that kind introduction and for your tremendous work on behalf of our Second Amendment. Thank you very much. I want to also thank Wayne LaPierre for his unflinching leadership in the fight for freedom. Wayne, thank you very much. Great.

I'd also like to congratulate Karen Handel on her incredible fight in Georgia Six. The election takes place on June 20. And by the way, on primaries, let's not have 11 Republicans running for the same position, okay? [Laughter] It's too nerve-shattering. She's totally for the NRA, and she's totally for the Second Amendment. So get out and vote. She's running against someone who's going to raise your taxes to the sky, destroy your health care, and he's for open borders—lots of crime—and he's not even able to vote in the district that he's running in. Other than that, I think he's doing a fantastic job, right? [Laughter] So get out and vote for Karen.

Also, my friend—he's become a friend—because there's nobody that does it like Lee Greenwood. Wow. [Laughter] Lee's anthem is the perfect description of the renewed spirit sweeping across our country. And it really is, indeed, sweeping across our country. So, Lee, I know I speak for everyone in this arena when I say, we are all very proud indeed to be an American. Thank you very much, Lee.

No one was more proud to be American than the beloved patriot—and you know who I'm talking about—we remember on gatherings like today, your former five-term President, the late Charlton Heston. How good was Charlton? And I remember Charlton; he was out there fighting when maybe a lot of people didn't want to be fighting. He was out there for a long time. He was a great guy.

And it's truly wonderful to be back in Atlanta and back with my friends at the NRA. You are my friends, believe me. Perhaps some of you remember the last time we were all together. Remember that? [Laughter] We had a big crowd then too. So we knew something was happening. But it was in the middle of a historic political year and in the middle of a truly historic election. What fun that was: November 8. Wasn't that a great evening? Do you remember that evening? Remember that?

Remember they were saying, "We have breaking news: Donald Trump has won the State of Michigan." They go, "Michigan? How did that"—"Donald Trump has won the State of Wisconsin, whoa." But earlier in the evening, remember: Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, all the way up—we ran up the East Coast. And you know, the Republicans have a tremendous disadvantage in the electoral college; you know that. And tremendous disadvantage. And to run the whole East Coast, and then you go with Iowa and Ohio, and all of the different States. It was a great evening, one that a lot people will never forget—a lot of people. [Laughter] Not going to forget that evening.

And remember they said, "There is no path to 270." For months, I was hearing that. You know, they're trying to suppress the vote. So they keep saying it; so people say, you know, I really like Trump, he loves the Second Amendment, he loves the NRA; I love him, but let's go to the movie, because he can't win. Because they're trying to suppress the vote.

But they'd say—I mean, hundreds of times I heard—there is no—there's no route. They'd say it, "There is no route to 270." And we ended up with 306. So they were right: not 270, 306. That was some evening. Big sports fans said that was the single most exciting event they've ever seen. That includes Super Bowls and World Series and boxing matches. That was an exciting evening for all of us, and it meant a lot.

Only one candidate in the general election came to speak to you, and that candidate is now the President of the United States, standing before you again. I have a feeling that in the next election you're going to be swamped with candidates, but you're not going to be wasting your time. [Laughter] You'll have plenty of those Democrats coming over, and you're going to say, no, sir, no thank you—no, ma'am. Perhaps ma'am. It may be Pocahontas, remember that. [Laughter] And she is not big for the NRA, that I can tell you.

But you came through for me, and I am going to come through for you. I was proud to receive the NRA's earliest endorsement in the history of the organization. And today I am also proud to be the first sitting President to address the NRA Leadership Forum since our wonderful Ronald Reagan in 1983. And I want to thank each and every one of you, not only for your help electing true friends of the Second Amendment, but for everything you do to defend our flag and our freedom.

With your activism, you helped to safeguard the freedoms of our soldiers who have bled and died for us on the battlefields. And I know we have many veterans in the audience today, and we want to give them a big, big beautiful round of applause.

And like I promised, we are doing a really top job already—99 days—but already, with the Veterans Administration, people are seeing a big difference. We are working really hard at the VA, and you're going to see it, and you're already seeing it. And it's my honor. I've been telling you we're going to do it, and we're doing it. Thank you.

The NRA protects in our capitols and legislative houses the freedoms that our servicemembers have won for us on those incredible battlefields. And it's been a tough fight against those who would go so far as to ban private gun ownership entirely. But I am here to deliver you good news. And I can tell you that Wayne and Chris have been fighting with me long and hard to make sure that we were with you today, not somebody else with an empty podium. Because believe me, the podium would have been empty. They fought long and hard, and I think you folks cannot thank them enough. They were with us all the way, right from the beginning.

But we have news that you've been waiting for for a long time: The 8-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end. You have a true friend and champion in the White House. No longer will Federal agencies be coming after law-abiding gun owners. No longer will the Government be trying to undermine your rights and your freedoms as Americans. Instead, we will work with you, by your side. We will work with the NRA to promote responsible gun ownership, to protect our wonderful hunters and their access to the very beautiful outdoors. You met my son; I can tell you, both sons, they love the outdoors. Frankly, I think they love the outdoors more than they love, by a long shot, Fifth Avenue. But that's okay. And we want to ensure you of the sacred right of self-defense for all of our citizens.

When I spoke to this forum last year, our Nation was still mourning the loss of a giant, a great defender of the Constitution: Justice Antonin Scalia. I promised that if elected, I would nominate a Justice who would be faithful and loyal to the Constitution. I even went one step further and publicly presented a list of 20 judges from which I would make my selection, and that's exactly what we did.

And by the way, I want to thank, really, Heritage. And I want to thank also all of the people that worked with us. Where's Leo? Is Leo around here? Where is he? He's got to be here. Where is he? He has been so good. But from—and also from Heritage, Jim DeMint. It's been amazing. I mean, those people have been fantastic. They've been real friends. The Federalist people, where are they? Are they around here someplace? They really helped us out. I kept my promise, and now, with your help, our brandnew Justice—and he is really something very special—Neil Gorsuch, sits on the Bench of the United States Supreme Court. For the first time in the modern political era, we have confirmed a new Justice in the first 100 days. The last time that happened was 136 years ago, in 1881. Now, we won't get any credit for this, but don't worry about it; the credit is in the audience, right? The credit is in the audience. All of those people. They won't give us credit, but it's been a long time, and we're very honored.

We've also taken action to stand up for America's sportsmen. On their very last full day in office, the previous administration issued an 11th-hour rule to restrict the use of lead ammunition on certain Federal lands. Have you heard about that, folks? I'm shocked to hear that. You've all heard about that. Huh? You've heard about that. On his first day as Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke eliminated the previous administration's ammunition ban. He's going to be great. Ryan is going to be great.

We've also moved very quickly to restore something gun owners care about very, very much. It's called the rule of law. We have made clear that our administration will always stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement. In fact, countless members of law enforcement are also members of the NRA, because our police know that responsible gun ownership saves lives and that the right of self-defense is essential to public safety. Do we all agree with that?

Our police and sheriffs also know that when you ban guns, only the criminals will be armed. For too long, Washington has gone after law-abiding gun owners while making life easier for criminals, drug dealers, traffickers, and gang members. MS-13—you know about MS-13? It's not pleasant for them anymore, folks. It's not pleasant for them anymore. That's a bad group. Not pleasant for MS-13. Get them the hell out of here, right? Get them out.

We are protecting the freedoms of law-abiding Americans, and we are going after the criminal gangs and cartels that prey on our innocent citizens. And we are really going after them.

As members of the NRA know well, some of the most important decisions a President can make are appointments, and I've appointed people who believe in law, order, and justice. That is why I have selected as your Attorney General, number one, a really fine person, a really good man, a man who has spent his entire career fighting crime, supporting the police, and defending the Second Amendment. For the first time in a long time, you now have a pro-Second Amendment, tough-on-crime Attorney General, and his name is Jeff Sessions.

And Attorney General Sessions is putting our priorities into action. He's going after the drug dealers who are peddling their poison all over our streets and destroying our youth. He's going after the gang members who threaten our children. And he's fully enforcing our immigration laws in all 50 States. And you know what? It's about time.

Heading up the effort to secure America's borders is a great military general, a man of action: Homeland Security Director [Secretary]* John Kelly. Secretary Kelly, who used to be General Kelly, is following through on my pledge to protect the borders, remove criminal aliens, and stop the drugs from pouring into our country. We've already seen—listen to this; it's never happened before, people can't even believe it. And by the way, we will build the wall no matter how low this number gets or how high this goes. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it.

You know, they're trying to use this number against us because we've done so unbelievably at the borders already. They're trying to use it against us. But you need that wall to stop the human trafficking, to stop the drugs, to stop the wrong people. You need the wall. But listen to this: We've already seen a 73 percent decrease—never happened before—in illegal immigration on the southern border since my election—73 percent.

You see what they're doing, right? So why do you need a wall? We need a wall.

Audience member. Build the wall!

The President. We'll build the wall. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it. Don't even think about it. That's an easy one. We're going to build the wall. We need the wall.

I said to General Kelly, how important is it? He said, very important. It's that final element. We need the wall. And it's a wall in certain areas. You, obviously—where you have these massive physical structures, you don't need, and where you have certain big rivers and all. But we need a wall, and we're going to get that wall.

And the world is getting the message. They know that our border is no longer open to illegal immigration and that if you try to break in, you'll be caught, and you'll be returned to your home. You're not staying any longer. And if you keep coming back illegally after deportation, you will be arrested, prosecuted, and you will put behind bars. Otherwise, it will never end.

Let's also remember that immigration security is national security. We've seen the attacks from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino. Hundreds of individuals from other countries have been charged with terrorism-related offenses in the United States.

We spend billions and billions of dollars on security all over the world, but then we allow radical Islamic terrorists to enter right through our front door. That's not going to happen anymore. It's time to get tough. It's time we finally got smart. And yes, it's also time to put America first.

And perhaps—I see all of those beautiful red and white hats-—but we will never forget our favorite slogan of them all: Make America Great Again. All right?

Keeping our communities safe and protecting our freedoms also requires the cooperation of our State leaders. We have some incredible pro-Second Amendment Governors here at the NRA conference, including Governor Scott of Florida. Where is Governor Scott? Where is he? Great guy, doing a great job. Governor Bryant of Mississippi. What a wonderful place. Governor Bryant is here. Thank you. Governor Deal of Georgia. And we're also joined by two people that—well, one I loved right from the beginning; the other one I really liked, didn't like, and now like a lot again. [Laughter] Does that make sense? Senator David Perdue—he was from the beginning—and Senator Ted Cruz—like, dislike, like. Where are they? Good guys. Good guys. Smart cookies.

Each of these leaders knows that public officials must serve under the Constitution, not above it. We all took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, and that means defending the Second Amendment.

So let me make a simple promise to every one of the freedom-loving Americans in the audience today: As your President, I will never, ever infringe on the right of the people to keep and bear arms. Never ever. Freedom is not a gift from government, freedom is a gift from God.

It was this conviction that stirred the heart of a great American patriot on that day, April, 242 years ago. It was the day that Paul Revere spread his Lexington alarm, the famous warning that "the British are coming, the British are coming." Right? You've all heard that, right? The British are coming.

Now we have other people trying to come, but believe me, they're not going to be successful. That I can tell you. Nothing changes, right, folks? Nothing changes. They are not going to be successful. There will be serious hurt on them, not on us. Next, came the shot heard around the world and then a ragtag army of God-fearing farmers, frontiersmen, shopkeepers, merchants that stood up to the most powerful army at that time on Earth. The most powerful army on Earth. But we sometimes forget what inspired those everyday farmers and workers in that great War for Independence.

Many years after the war, a young man asked Captain Levi Preston, aged 91, why he fought alongside his neighbors at Concord. Was it the Stamp Act? Was it the tea tax? Was it a work of philosophy? "No," the old veteran replied. "Then why?" he was asked. "Young man," the captain said, "what we meant in going for those Redcoats was this: We always had governed ourselves, and we always meant to" govern ourselves.

Captain Preston's words are a reminder of what this organization and my administration are all about: the right of a sovereign people to govern their own affairs and govern them properly. We don't want any longer to be ruled by the bureaucrats in Washington or in any other country, for that matter. In America, we are ruled by our citizens. We are ruled by each and every one of you.

But we can't be complacent. These are dangerous times. These are horrible times for certain obvious reasons. But we're going to make them great times again. Every day, we are up against those who would take away our freedoms, restrict our liberties, and even those who want to abolish the Second Amendment. We must be vigilant. And I know you are all up to the task.

Since the first generation of Americans stood strong at Concord, each generation to follow has answered the call to defend freedom in their time. That is why we are here today: To defend freedom for our children. To defend the liberty of all Americans. And to defend the right of a free and sovereign people to keep and bear arms.

I greatly appreciated your support on November 8, in what will, hopefully, be one of the most important and positive elections for the United States of all time. And to the NRA, I can proudly say I will never, ever let you down.

Thank you. God Bless you. God Bless our Constitution, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

The President. Do I know these people well? You wouldn't believe it. [Laughter] I know them too well. I know them too well. They cost me a lot of money. [Laughter] I spent a lot of money, but I love them, and they're great, and their people are fantastic. And nobody does it like you people, right? Nobody. We talked about that—incredible. Incredible people.

So it's great to be back with America's builders. So did you ever think you'd see a President who knows how much concrete and rebar you can lay down in a single day? Believe me, I know. I know. We're a nation of builders, and it was about time we had a builder in the White House, right? We have a builder.

I want to thank Sean McGarvey and the entire governing board of presidents for honoring me with this great invitation. And I love that it's in Washington, because I don't have to travel—very fair. Worked out pretty well, I have to tell you. Five minutes.

Sean took part in one of our very first meetings at the White House—he mentioned it—and I promise you that America's labor leaders will always find an open door with Donald Trump. Always. Just look at the amazing talent assembled here. We have ironworkers, insulators—[applause]—never changes, does it, with the ironworkers? [Laughter]

Well, let's hear it. Laborers! [Applause] Painters! [Applause] Fitters! [Applause] Plumbers! [Applause] Operators! [Applause] They're operators, all right, I'll tell you that. [Laughter] Electricians! [Applause] Not that good. Where's my Local 3? Oh, where's Local 3? That wasn't that good, electricians. Well, they became so rich, they don't have to—[laughter]. Let's do that again. Electricians! [Applause] Oh, that's better. Bricklayers! [Applause] Boilermakers! [Applause] Elevator constructors! [Applause] Good job. Sheet-metal workers! [Applause] Roofers! [Applause] Plasterers! [Applause] Plaster, well, yes, that's—we're not using as much plaster as we used to, fellas, right? [Laughter] No matter how you cut it. I'm sorry about that. I'm not sure I can do much—we brought back the coal miners. I'm not so sure about the plasterers. [Laughter] We'll do the best we can, okay? We're going to do the best we can. How about the cement masons! [Applause] And of course, our wonderful Teamsters. [Applause] Oh, that wasn't very good, James. [Laughter] Huh?

Audience member. Right here!

The President. But really, you're the backbone of America. With the talent in this room, we can build any city at any time, and we can build it better than anyone. But we're going to do even better than that. Together, we are going to rebuild our Nation.

You're the keepers of the great trades and traditions that built our country. From the New York skyline to the Golden Gate Bridge, you represent the workers whose hands, skills, and dreams will build the great landmarks of our future. Every day, your members live out what I call the American creed. They're on the job before dawn and after dusk, and they never quit until that job is done. And you know that. True. [Applause] True.

We saw this grit on display when the construction trades helped rebuild New York City after 9/11. That was a terrible time—we were all there—that was a terrible time in this country's history. Worst attack in the history of our country. Worse than Pearl Harbor. Pearl Harbor, they were attacking military. Here they were attacking civilians. Worst attack. And I saw what happened. Within a very short period of time, we were back rebuilding, and rebuild you did. And I really congratulate—that took a lot of courage and a lot of strength. And thank you.

The fact is, you take pride in every part of your work, every joist, bolt, and rivet. You're not only builders, but you're artisans, very talented people—a lot of people don't understand, you're very talented people—enriching our cities and landscapes with works of great beauty. And just as you take pride in your work, our Nation takes great, great pride in you, believe me. And it's time that we give you the level playing field you deserve. [Applause] Thank you. Thank you, folks.

Washington and Wall Street have done very, very well for themselves. Now, it's your turn. And you're going to be also sharing the wealth. And you know, for many years, we've been taken advantage of by other countries. All over the world they took advantage of us. We had leaders that didn't have a clue or worse. That's not going to happen anymore, folks. That's not going to happen anymore. And you see what's going on right now. In fact, the trade deficit went way down—just announced before I got on stage. And I will tell you, we're going to have a whole different set of values when it comes to representing our country. That I can tell you right now.

This election was all about returning power to the people. I've spent my life working side-by-side with American builders, and now you have a builder as your President. One of my first acts as President was to stop one of the great sellouts of the American worker. I immediately withdrew the United States from the disaster—this would have been a disaster—this would have been another NAFTA, which, by the way, is a disaster. I took you out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. [Applause] Thank you. That one wasn't even close. And you know it, and I know it—everybody knows it.

Next, I cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines. And it's looking like that's going to have about 42,000 jobs involved, those two jobs. That some number of great people. That's a big, big, beautiful—lot of people. And Sean, actually, and a whole group joined me in the Oval Office when we approved the Keystone permit.

And I joke—and I joked that day, I said, can you imagine the head of this big Canadian company, in this case, they build pipelines—and they failed. Didn't work. They paid millions and millions and hundreds of millions of dollars to consultants and lawyers, and they failed. And it was over. And then, one day Trump wins, and a few days later they get a knock on the door—sir, the Keystone pipeline was just approved.

Can you imagine? I want to see the expression on his face. And he's a nice guy. He actually—they came to the office. Because I did say you have to use American steel, you have to fabricate it here. Now, they had already bought 60, 70 percent of it. So you can't be too wild, right? But I was signing the order, and I said, "Where did they buy this steel?" I didn't like the answer. I said, "Who fabricated the steel?" I didn't like the answer. I said, "From now on, we're going to put a clause—got to be made in America." We want American steel, made in America. Right on the bottom. Hundred percent, fellas. Right?

And you'll be hearing more about this in the very near future. But as time goes by, let's say, over the next 7¾ years, meaning 8 years. [Laughter] We believe in two simple rules: Buy American and hire American. That's what it's going to be. And that's not just a slogan, it's a promise. Believe me, that's a promise.

The era of economic surrender has come to an end. It's come to an end. We have surrendered, as a country, to outside interests. The era of economic victory for our country has just begun. You will see. No longer will we listen to those failed consultants who've made one wrong prediction after another, delivering nothing but soaring trade deficits and a big, fat, shrinking workforce.

For decades now, we've watched as our factories have shuttered—almost 70,000 factories—our jobs have been stolen, and blue collar wages have declined. We've seen the economic pain inflicted on our fellow Americans in Pittsburgh and Detroit and Baltimore. We didn't just offshore our jobs, we offshored a big, big part of the American Dream.

We enriched foreign countries at the expense of our own country, the great United States of America. But those days are over. I'm not—and I don't want to be—the President of the world. I'm the President of the United States. And from now on, it's going to be America first.

We're going to bring back our jobs, and yes, we're going to bring back the American Dream. As I traveled the Nation, I heard the pleas of the forgotten men and women of our country, the people who work hard and play by the rules, but who don't have a voice. Together, we are their voice, and they will never, ever be forgotten again. That I can tell you.

I don't know if you saw, but if you watch the Democrats now, the anger—the anger and hatred, and they're trying to figure out where did all these people came that voted for Donald Trump? Remember they said—because the electoral college is very, very hard, they say, almost impossible for a Republican to win. The odds are stacked. And they would say there's no way to 270—you need 270—there's no way to 270. Now, I heard that so much for a year. I kept saying, maybe I shouldn't be running. You know, Sean, I said, maybe I shouldn't run, because there's no way. The people are telling me—the same people that say all of the bad stuff, they're saying—there's no way to 270. Well—but there was a way to 306. [Laughter]

But wasn't that an exciting one? Places that nobody entered—Donald Trump has won the State of Michigan. They go, what? Donald Trump has won the State of Wisconsin. They came out of the blue, and we didn't even need them. And we love those two States—because we won the State of Pennsylvania, and we won Ohio and Iowa and North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida and so many others. We ran the coast. And if you don't run it, you can't win. Huge disadvantage, the electoral college. It's very, very tough. They say almost impossible for a Republican to win. But I had the support of, I would say, I would say almost everybody in this room.

We had tremendous—we had tremendous support. No, we did. We had tremendous support. We had tremendous support. And I'll tell you, we really had the support of the workers. We had tremendous support of the workers. What, would you like to make a change, folks? Would you like to make a change? Because if anybody wants to make a change, you won't be having so many jobs. That I can tell you. Your jobs will be—it will be a whole different story. Because in the last decade, you lost over 750 construction—think of this—750,000 construction jobs. Real wages in the construction sector have fallen more than 15 percent since the 1970s. We rank 39th in the world for construction permitting. And approvals for infrastructure projects can take up to 10 years. Since taking office, I've signed one action after another to eliminate job-killing regulations that stand in the way. I had a chart—is that chart around here someplace? Did you have that? I have to show this chart to you, because it's amazing, actually. [Laughter]

[At this point, the President was handed a chart, which he then showed to the audience.]

This is—if you want to build a highway in the United States, these are some of the permits that you need. [Laughter] It's a process that can take way over 10 years. And it just never happens. Then, at the end of the period, they vote against it. And we're getting rid of many of these regulations. You have to go through 17 agencies, many permits in each agency.

In February alone, we added almost 60,000 new construction jobs in the country. I ordered expedited environmental reviews for infrastructure, environmental, and energy projects all across the country. No longer will you have to wait year after year for approvals that never come.

I also took historic action to lift the restrictions on American energy production and to put our miners, who have been treated horribly, back to work. Consumer confidence—[applause]—they're great people. Consumer confidence is at the highest level in more than a decade. You've seen all of the charts, all of the studies. The National Association of Manufacturers just the other day reported the most optimism in the entire history of its survey—which is a old survey—93 percent of manufacturers are optimistic about the future. That's almost 27 percent lower than that just a few months ago.

The Home Builders Confidence Index is at its highest level in 12 years. And now, in breaking news—it was just reported today—the monthly U.S. trade deficit declined by 10 percent, for a reason. Not by accident, believe me. It was for a reason.

We're also going to protect your jobs by protecting our borders. My administration is—just a matter of weeks, in literally, a short period of time—has brought record reductions to illegal immigration. Record reductions. Down 61 percent since Inauguration. General Kelly is doing a fantastic job. And we'll crack down on visa abuses that undermine the American worker. And we're doing that right now.

These, and so many other great achievements, have defined our first 10 weeks in office. We've done so much for the worker. Done so much for the military. We've done so much for the police officers, our men in blue and women in blue, who are not treated fairly. We're fighting for workers of all backgrounds and from all walks of life.

But to achieve true progress, we must remember our legacy. We're the Nation that built the tallest skyscrapers on what was once the Hudson River and put neon lights of Las Vegas in the middle of the desert. But if Government continues to punish America's builders, then we will not be that Nation any longer.

I'm calling on all Americans—Democrat, Republican, Independent—to come together and take part in the great rebuilding of our country.

That is why, in my address to Congress, I called on lawmakers to pass legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of our country. And we need it. With your help, we can rebuild our country's bridges, airports, seaports, and water systems. We will streamline the process to get approvals quickly, so that long-delayed projects can finally move ahead. And with lower taxes on America's middle class and businesses, we will see a new surge of economic growth and development. All of you have come to the Nation's Capital to call Members of the House and Senate to action. You've also called your President to action. When you see them, you can tell Congress that America's building trades and its President are very much united. [Applause] Thank you.

Together, we are ready to break new ground. We will build in the spirit of one of the great projects in our Nation's history, an enduring symbol of American strength. The Empire State Building was forged in the Great Depression and provided jobs for more than 3,000 workers. We've all seen the pictures: rugged workers perched dozens and dozens of stories up in the air. Workers like these moved almost 60,000 tons of steel, installed 200,000 cubic feet of stone, and laid 10 million bricks to build that American icon. And they did the job in a record time—13 months. Hard to believe. Think of that: the Empire State Building built in 13 months, during the Depression. Nowadays, you couldn't even get a building permit—[laughter]—or approval in that amount of time.

When the workers had secured the last piece of steel in that amazing and beautiful structure, they marked the moment—as we still do today—with what is called a "topping out" ceremony: 1,050 feet above the streets of New York City, they hoisted a beautiful and great American flag.

Audience member. The ironworkers!

The President. They did a good job. They did a good, those ironworkers, you'd better believe it.

It was an American flag that represented American projects, the big, bold, and daring dream of one man and then one city and, then finally, one people. That banner marked our Nation's proud climb to the top of the world. Our people endured through the hardships of Depression and the battles of World War II, and they emerged from these trials stronger and more united than ever before. Now, we must again summon that same national greatness to meet the challenges of our time.

Only miles from the halls of Congress and the newsrooms of Washington, you will find once-thriving cities marred by empty lots and once-booming industrial towns that have become rusted and are in total disrepair. Standing before me today, in this very hall, are the men and women who, if given the chance, can transform these communities. You are the citizens who can rebuild our cities, revive our industries, and renew our beloved country. And I know you will stop at nothing to get the job done.

For the rest of their lives, everyone who worked on the Empire State Building knew when they looked up at that great New York skyline that they had lifted the Stars and Stripes atop the tallest flagpole on Earth and that somewhere high above the city streets, their place in history was carved into beams of steel.

In the future, when we become—the trials—and we are—trials of our times—we too will emerge stronger and more united than ever before. It's happening, you watch. When we rise above the cynics and critics who live only to defend the status quo and to defend themselves from failure, then we, too, will construct a lasting monument to national greatness.

In this future, our Nation's workers and craftsmen will look way out at the vast open landscape, and they will build new bridges and new schools and new landmarks, and they will proudly raise up for all to see our bright and beautiful American flag. And when we see that flag, we will remember that we all share one American home, one American heart, and one American destiny. May God bless our Nation's builders. May God bless our Nation's workers. And may God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.

My fellow Americans, this weekend, I begin my first trip overseas as President, a trip with historic significance for the American people. I will be visiting with the leaders in many different countries to strengthen our old friendships, build new partnerships, and unite the civilized world in a fight against terrorism.

In that spirit of unity, I will travel to lands associated with three of the world's great religions. My first stop will be Saudi Arabia, the heart of the Muslim world. There I will address a historic gathering of the leaders of more than 50 Muslim nations. I will represent the views of the American people frankly and clearly.

Many of these leaders have expressed growing concern about terrorism, the spread of radicalization, and Iran's role in funding both. Now it appears Muslim leaders are ready to take more responsibility and a much bigger role in fighting terrorism in their region. It's about time we do it, we'll do it together, but it has to be done. America cannot solve all of the world's problems, but we can—and we must—help any nation willing to join in the common cause of eradicating terrorism from the face of the earth.

Next, I'll travel to the ancient city of Jerusalem to talk with my good friend, Prime Minister Netanyahu, about bringing peace and prosperity to both our nations. Israel is an important American ally, but in recent years, we haven't always treated them that way. It's time to renew our friendship.

While I'm there, I'll also meet with President Abbas of the Palestinian Authority in Bethlehem to discuss ways to advance peace between Israel and the Palestinians.

From there, I'll head to the Vatican, where I will have the great honor of an audience with Pope Francis. I look forward to speaking with the Pope about how Christian teachings can help put the world on a path to justice, freedom, and peace.

I will also meet with friends and allies in Europe at a gathering of NATO in Brussels and at the G-7 summit in Italy. Finally, I will close my trip by saying thank you to some of the courageous men and women of the United State military serving their nation overseas.

In my Inaugural Address, I pledged to strengthen America's oldest friendships, to seek new partners in pursuit of peace, and above all, to always put American people first.

I also pledged that our partners must show that they're partners, they must show that they're friends, and they must contribute financially to the tremendous cost. The money that we're spending is so big, it's so much, and it's not fair for our Nation. They have to help, and I'm sure they will. The fact is, I'm excited about new possibilities for peace and prosperity, and I hope you are too.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.

My fellow Americans, a new optimism is sweeping our country as we return power from Washington and give it back to the American people, where it belongs. For too long, American workers were forgotten by their government, and I mean totally forgotten. Their interests were pushed aside for global projects, and their wealth was taken from their communities and shipped across the world, all across the seas.

My administration has offered a new vision. The well-being of the American citizen and worker will be placed second to none, and, boy, do I mean second to none. Since day one, I have been fighting for the hard-working people of this country, and this week, we took historic action to continue delivering on that promise.

We did so in one of the many proud industrial towns of our Nation—Kenosha, Wisconsin—with the men and women of Snap-On, who make American tools for workers around the world. They were there, and they loved what they heard, and they loved what they saw.

In Wisconsin, I signed an Executive order to buy American and hire American. I took historic action to ensure that Federal projects are made with American goods and to keep American workers and companies from being cheated out of contracts by countries that break the rules and break every regulation in the book to take advantage of the United States. That's not going to happen anymore.

I also took action to reform our immigration system so that it puts the needs of American workers first. The duty of Government is to represent the citizens of the United States, and that is what we will do. Whether it's removing job-killing regulations, protecting our borders, or unleashing American energy, we are keeping our promises and delivering for the American worker.

During my visit, I talked about how America is a nation that honors work. We honor grit. We honor craftsmanship. We honor the skilled tradespeople who turn rock and steel and iron and cement into works of art and grace and beauty. There's tremendous talent there, believe me.

The wrench and ratchet are not only tools, but instruments that help build cities out of deserts and send ships across the ocean. And the tools of craftsmen and the masons are just as important as the tools of the doctor and the dentist or the CEO or even the tools of politicians—believe it or not—and their work is every bit as noble. They take pride in their jobs, and we take pride in them. No longer will the concerns of these hard-working Americans go unanswered.

By making government answer to our citizens, we are removing the limits on our future and setting free the dreams of our people. As long as we do this, optimism will continue to soar, hope will continue to spring, and this country we love will grow stronger and stronger day by day.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.

The President. A special group of people. Very special to me, very important. And I want to thank you all for being here and for your work on behalf of our Nation's veterans, our great, great people, our veterans.

We're all united by a very common mission: We will protect those who protect us. I've been saying that a lot over the last 2 years at rallies and speeches. We will protect those who protect us, and that's just starting, because I think the veterans have not been treated fairly. And David and a group of brilliant, brilliant doctors and businessmen are forming a Board, and you've got the most talented people that I've ever seen working with you. This is—no more games going to be played at the VA.

And I want to thank David, your Secretary—your new Secretary, who's going to be so outstanding. I think he actually passed a hundred to nothing. [Laughter] When I heard that vote I said, where did that come from? [Laughter] A hundred to nothing, right? Passed a hundred to nothing—for bringing your vision, experience and determination to the crucial task of reforming the VA and ensuring care for our returning heroes and warriors.

And tonight I'm having a major meeting with some of the people that we put on a Board. Ike Perlmutter is an amazing man: Marvel, Disney; he's one of the great, great businessmen of our time, and others—we're having a meeting tonight at what we call affectionately the southern White House. [Laughter] Seems to be the most convenient location. Everybody always wants to go to the southern White House. So are you going to be at that meeting? You heard about it, right? It's going to be great—all about the VA.

The VA's mission statement is engraved in the plaques outside its headquarters. It reads: "To care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan." And that was stated by Abraham Lincoln. That was Lincoln's pledge—called Lincoln's pledge. But for too many veterans, this hasn't been their experience at all. We've been reading horrible stories over the years, and already, David, I'm hearing, it's getting much better. A lot of improvements are being made, and it's going to change. And under my administration, it will change—very important to me.

During my campaign, I outlined a detailed plan to reforming veterans' care throughout the country, and we're working to put that plan into effect. And it's moving, I think I can say honestly, ahead of schedule.

As Commander in Chief, I will not accept substandard service for our great veterans. Every member of our Government is expected to do their utmost to ensure our veterans have the care that they're so entitled to, maybe more entitled to than anybody. And that hasn't been the way they were treated. But it is the way they're going to be treated.

So again, I want to thank you all for being here. It's a great honor. And maybe I'll ask David just to say a few words.

Secretary of Veterans Affairs David J. Shulkin. Sure. And thank you, Mr. President.

The President. Thank you. Secretary Shulkin. Mr. Vice President. I wanted to let you know the people in this room are some of the most dedicated, passionate people advocating for our veterans. And they are our partners in this quest to transform VA. And we really are so grateful that they're here with us standing as partners.

I also wanted to thank you, Mr. President, for the budget. I think that you've honored your commitment to showing that this country cares about the veterans, and you've given us the ability to make sure that we are able to care for them. I also wanted to tell you that yesterday the House passed an accountability bill, and we're very, very grateful for Chairman Roe's leadership and for the House's leadership in doing that. We're looking forward to the Senate bringing a bill forward.

And so, I think, as you said, we're committed to the plan that you outlined during your campaign to making the VA the type of organization that Americans want it to be, and we're well on our way to do that. So thank you very much.

The President. Well, that's great. And unrelated, we just had a meeting with probably 12 Congressmen, and it was an amazing meeting because they were all "noes," would you say, Mike? They were all "noes" or pretty much "no," and after 15 minutes—now, in all fairness, not 15 minutes, it was really actually about 4 or 5 days, but after 15 minutes, they went from "no" to all "yeses." So the health care looks like it's going to be in great shape. It's a great plan. The press doesn't give it a fair read, but I've heard that before. I mean, what are you going to do? The fake news.

But it's a great plan, or I wouldn't be involved with it. I wouldn't be involved. So you have 12 "noes"—and we have rejiggered it, and we've done some great things—but the "noes" in every single case went to a "yes." So that was a great honor, and health care looks like it's really happening, and it's going to be great.

Obamacare is dead. Some of you folks have yourselves—but you have family members that have suffered greatly under Obamacare. It's dying. It's just about on its last legs. If we did nothing, if we did absolutely nothing, Obamacare is dead. It will fail. In Tennessee, where I just left, half of the State has no insurance carrier—no carrier. It's gone. And they're going to leave the other half of the State very soon. You have that in many cases. Many States are down to one, and they'll end up with nothing.

So Obamacare is dead. We're going to come up with a replacement that's going to be fantastic. We have no support from the Democrats. That's why it's a little—we have to go interesting little routes. Instead of just approving it, it has to be approved in pieces, and that's working out really well. But we just got 12 very, very great people that went from "no" or "maybe"—but "maybe" leaning to "no"—right, Mike? And they all have given me a commitment that they're voting for our health plan—health care plan. So that was great.

I want to thank you all for being here, and let's talk. And the press will leave. Thank you very much.

My fellow Americans, this week, I traveled to Nashville, Tennessee to lay a wreath at the grave of Andrew Jackson, on the 250th anniversary of his birth. Jackson was an American hero: first, as a brilliant general whose crushing defeat of the British at New Orleans saved our independence in the War of 1812; and later, as the seventh President of the United States, when he fought to defend the forgotten men and women from the arrogant elite of his day. Does it sound familiar? The memory of his leadership lives on in our people, and his spirit points us to a better future.

This week, I also traveled to the Willow Run plant in Michigan. At that facility during the Second World War, the Ford Motor Company built not cars, but entire airplanes. At one point, workers there produced a complete B-24 Liberator every single hour. Hard to believe.

Today, on that site, is a new facility, where the cutting edge cars of the future will be tested. And this week, the old plant was filled once again with thousands of workers and engineers. I was there to share the good news for the American auto industry.

We announced we'll be reversing an 11th-hour executive action from the previous administration that was threatening thousands of auto jobs in Michigan and across America. And I mean threatening; it was very, very sad to see.

In fact, we are setting up a Task Force in every Federal agency to identify any unnecessary regulation that is hurting American businesses and American jobs. The first two job reports of my administration show that we've already added nearly half a million new jobs.

The days of economic surrender for the United States are over. For too long, special interests have made money shipping jobs overseas. We need a new economic model; let's call it the American Model. Under this model, we will lower the burden on American business, but in exchange, they must hire and grow America and American jobs. This will be a win-win for our companies and for our workers.

Let's buy American and hire American. Let's create jobs in America. Let's imagine new industries. And let's build a beautiful future together.

Among the workers building B-24 bombers at the Willow Run plant during World War II was one tough lady. You might have heard her: They called her Rosie the Riveter. And when Rosie's country called her, she answered the call. Rosie was famous for her toughness and her strength and for the words that were emblazoned above her famous image. It said very simply: "We can do it."

If Americans unite and find again within our Nation the soul of Rosie and the spirit of Jackson, I have no doubt that we can do it and do it like never before.

Thank you. Enjoy your week.

My fellow Americans, this is a season of great hope. This week, Jewish families across our country and around the world celebrate Passover and retell the story of God's deliverance of the Jewish people. The story of the Exodus is a story of freedom. It is a story of an incredible people who were liberated from oppression and raised up the face of humankind.

Down through the centuries, the Jewish people have lived through one persecution after another, and yet they persevered and thrived and uplifted the world beyond measure. And now the State of Israel stands as a monument to their faith and endurance.

Another day of faith and celebration is also upon us. This Easter Sunday, Christians celebrate the resurrection of Christ and the promise of eternal salvation. It is a holy day of reverence and worship; it is a sacred time that fills the spirit of our Nation with the faith of our people.

America is a Nation of believers. As families gather in houses of worship across the Nation, we are grateful for the tremendous blessings of this land, our home. We have a beautiful country, an abundant countryside, and an amazing people with a truly bright and wonderful future.

From the beginning, America has been a place that has cherished the freedom of worship. That is the promise the first settlers saw in our vast continent, and it is the promise that our bravest warriors have protected for all of our citizens in centuries since, a long time ago.

Sadly, many around the globe do not enjoy this freedom, and one of the gravest threats to religious freedom remains the threat of terror. On Palm Sunday, as Christians around the world celebrate the beginning of Holy Week, ISIS murdered at least 45 people and injured over 100 others at two Christian churches in Egypt.

We condemned this barbaric attack. We mourn for those who lost loved ones. And we pray for the strength and wisdom to achieve a better tomorrow, one where good people of all faiths—Christians and Muslims and Jewish and Hindu—can follow their hearts and worship according to their conscience.

With God's grace, life always triumphs over death, freedom overcomes oppression, and faith extinguishes fear. This is the source of our hope and our confidence in the future.

I also want to give a special message to those struggling Americans who have felt for too long the bitter taste of hardship. I want you to know, this White House is fighting for you. We are fighting for every American who has been left behind. We are fighting for the right of all citizens to enjoy safety and peace and to work and live with the dignity that all children of God are entitled to know.

As long as we have faith in each other and trust in God, we will succeed.

Thank you. Have a happy Easter, a happy Passover. God bless you. And God bless America.

My fellow Americans, confidence in the American economy has reached levels not seen in many, many years. Unemployment fell to its lowest level in nearly 10 years last month, and we created 211,000 new jobs.

Our economic progress is especially good news for the millions of young Americans who, at this time of the year, are putting on a cap and gown and receiving a diploma, certificate, or commission. So important, and we're so proud of them.

This weekend, I am delighted to be participating first hand in the excitement by joining the students and faculty at Liberty University to celebrate the success of their graduates. I was invited to make the commencement address at West Point, but I will be away at the G-7—and I look forward to that—and will be at West Point, Annapolis, the Air Force Academy.

Come to think about it, a few days later, I'll actually travel to New London, Connecticut, to speak to the graduating cadets of the United States Coast Guard Academy about their new roles serving our country. So we'll be with them very shortly.

To young Americans at both schools, I will be bringing a message of hope and optimism about our Nation's bright future. That is a message that I want to extend to all young Americans today, especially those who are graduating this year and entering the labor force.

We are also celebrating all of the Americans who learn the skills and trades that generations of workers have used to build, shape, and supply this Nation. The people who construct, repair, and create with their own two hands are the people who make this Nation run. And lots of those people voted for me. That's also why, in my administration, I'm so deeply committed to technical and vocational education.

I want you to know that my administration is working every single day to create new opportunities and to reverse years of stagnant growth, falling wages, and disappearing jobs. We are ending the sellout of American workers and lifting the burdens on American industry, manufacturing, and business.

We're also rolling back the job-killing regulations that make it harder for companies to grow and hire in America. At the same time, we are unleashing American energy development to create thousands of new jobs on our soil and just off our shores. On trade, we have also taken historic action to protect American industry and bring back the kinds of high-paying jobs that can support a middle class family and, in fact, most families.

As a vote of confidence in these policies, business optimism is soaring, and employment is rising. These are great signs for America's future, the future that our new graduates will play with such a critical role in shaping our world and our country. I want every young citizen, regardless of education or geography, to be able to live out their American dreams.

So to all of America's graduates, congratulations. And to all of America's youth: We are here to help create the jobs and future you deserve.

The brightest days are ahead of you. And I just look forward to seeing you at the Coast Guard Academy and at Liberty University. Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.

My fellow Americans, in March, we celebrate Women's History Month, honoring the countless contributions that women leaders, scientists, and entrepreneurs have made throughout American history.

We are a greater, stronger, and more just Nation today because of women like Clara Barton, Susan B. Anthony, Harriet Tubman, and so many others. We honor them, and we recommit ourselves to a better future for every woman in America today.

On my 50th day in office, I want to talk about an issue of paramount importance to families across our Nation: health care.

Seven years ago this month, Obamacare was signed into law over the profound objections of American people. Our citizens were told they'd have to pass Obamacare to find out what it was and how bad it was. Now, we know that the hundreds of pages were full of broken promises.

Americans were promised that Obamacare would bring premiums down $2,500 for a typical family. Instead, they've gone up by more than $4,000. Americans were promised that Obamacare would increase competition and provide them with more choices. Instead, the number of plans to choose from has plummeted—and I mean plummeted. This year, Americans in nearly one-third of all counties have only one insurer to choose from on the exchanges, or, in effect, no real choice at all.

Americans were promised that if they liked their health insurance and their doctors, they could keep them. Instead, millions of Americans lost the insurance and lost the doctor that they liked and were thrust into a cold new reality of higher costs and less coverage.

Through 7 long years of botched rollouts, soaring cost, cancelled plans, and bureaucratic mandates, Americans have called out for relief. And relief is what we are determined to give them.

I want every American to know that action on Obamacare is an urgent necessity. The law is collapsing around us, and if we do not act to save Americans from this wreckage, it will take our health care system all the way down with it. If we do nothing, millions more innocent Americans will be hurt, and badly hurt. That's why we must repeal and replace Obamacare.

House Republicans have put forward a plan that gets rid of this terrible law and replaces it with reforms that empower States and consumers. You will have the choice and the freedom to make the decisions that are right for your family. The House plan follows the guidelines I laid out in my recent address to Congress: expanding choice, lowering costs, and providing health care access for all.

This plan is part of a three-pronged reform process. In concert with the plan in front of Congress, I have directed Dr. Tom Price, our Secretary of Health and Human Services, to use his authority to reduce regulations that are driving up costs of care. We are also working on reforms that lower the costs of care, like allowing Americans to purchase health insurance across State lines. You've heard me say that many, many times during the debates.

I encourage Democrats to work with us to improve the health care system for the American people. Also, we will be driving down the costs.

We will deliver relief to American workers, families, and small businesses, who right now are being crushed by Obamacare, by increasing freedom, choice, and opportunity for the American people.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Wow. What a nice—what a nice visit this was. Inspirational visit, I have to tell you. I'm a fan. I'm a big fan.

I want to thank Howard Kittell, Frances Spradley of the Andrew Jackson Foundation, and all of the Foundation's incredible employees and supporters for preserving this great landmark, which is what it is. It's a landmark of our national heritage.

And a special thank you to Governor Bill Haslam and his incredible wife, who—we just rode over together—and Senators Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker, two great friends of mine, been a big, big help. Both incredible guys.

In my address to Congress, I looked forward to 9 years, to the 250th anniversary of American independence. Today I call attention to another anniversary: the 250th birthday of the very great Andrew Jackson. And he loved Tennessee, and so do I—to tell you that.

On this day in 1767, Andrew Jackson was born on the backwoods soil of the Carolinas. From poverty and obscurity, Jackson rose to glory and greatness, first as a military leader and then as the seventh President of the United States. He did it with courage, with grit, and with patriotic heart. And by the way, he was one of our great Presidents.

Jackson was the son of the frontier. His father died before he was born. His brother died fighting the British in the American Revolution. And his mother caught a fatal illness while tending to the wounded troops. At the age of 14, Andrew Jackson was an orphan, and look what he was able to do. Look what he was able to build.

It was during the Revolution that Jackson first confronted and defied an arrogant elite. Does that sound familiar to you? [Laughter] I wonder why they keep talking about Trump and Jackson, Jackson and Trump. Oh, I know the feeling, Andrew. [Laughter]

Captured by the Redcoats and ordered to shine the boots of a British officer, Jackson simply refused. The officer took his saber and slashed at Jackson, leaving gashes in his head and hand that remained permanent scars for the rest of his life. These were the first and far from the last blows that Andrew Jackson took for his country that he loved so much.

From that day on, Andrew Jackson rejected authority that looked down on the common people: first as a boy, when he bravely served the Revolutionary cause; next, as the heroic victor at New Orleans where his ragtag—and it was a ragtag—militia, but they were tough, and they drove the British imperial forces from America in a triumphant end to the War of 1812—he was a real general, that one; and finally, as President, when he reclaimed the people's government from an emerging aristocracy.

Jackson's victory shook the establishment like an earthquake. Henry Clay, Secretary of State for the defeated President John Quincy Adams, called Jackson's victory "mortifying and sickening". Oh, boy, does this sound familiar. [Laughter] Have we heard this? [Laughter] This is terrible. He said there had been "no greater calamity" in the Nation's history. The political class in Washington had good reason to fear Jackson's great triumph. "The rich and powerful," Jackson said, "too often bend the acts of government to their selfish purposes." Jackson warned they had turned government into an "engine for the support of the few at the expense of the many."

Andrew Jackson was the people's President, and his election came at a time when the vote was finally being extended to those who did not own property. To clean out the bureaucracy, Jackson removed 10 percent of the Federal workforce. He launched a campaign to sweep out government corruption totally. He didn't want government corruption. He expanded benefits for veterans. He battled the centralized financial power that brought influence at our citizens' expense. He imposed tariffs on foreign countries to protect American workers. That sounds very familiar. Wait till you see what's going to be happening pretty soon, folks. [Laughter] It's time. It's time.

Andrew Jackson was called many names, accused of many things, and by fighting for change, earned many, many enemies. Today, the portrait of this orphan son who rose to the Presidency hangs proudly in the Oval Office, opposite the portrait of another great American, Thomas Jefferson. I brought the Andrew Jackson portrait there. Right behind me, right—boom—over my left shoulder.

Now I'm honored to sit between those two portraits and to use this high office to serve, defend, and protect the citizens of the United States. It is my great honor. I will tell you that.

From that desk I can see out the wonderful, beautiful, large great window to an even greater magnolia tree, standing strong and tall across the White House lawn. That tree was planted there many years ago, when it was just a sprout carried from these very grounds. Came right from here. Beautiful tree.

That spout was nourished, it took root, and on this, his 250th birthday, Andrew Jackson's magnolia is a sight to behold. I looked at it, actually, this morning. Really beautiful.

But the growth of that beautiful tree is nothing compared to the growth of our beautiful nation. That growth has been made possible because more and more of our people have been given their dignity as equals under law and equals in the eyes of God.

Andrew Jackson as a military hero and genius and a beloved President. But he was also a flawed and imperfect man, a product of his time. It is the duty of each generation to carry on the fight for justice. My administration will work night and day to ensure that the sacred rights which God has bestowed on His children are protected for each and every one of you, for each and every American.

We must all remember Jackson's words: that in "the planter, the farmer, the mechanic, and the laborer," we will find muscle and bone of our country. So true. So true.

Now, we must work in our time to expand—and we have to do that, because we have no choice—we're going to make America great again, folks; we're going to make America great again—to expand the blessings of America to every citizen in our land. And when we do, watch us grow. Watch what's happening. You see it happening already. You see it with our great military. You see it with our great markets. You see it with our incredible business people. You see it with the level of enthusiasm that they haven't seen in many years. People are proud again of our country. And you're going to get prouder and prouder and prouder, I can promise you that. And watch us grow. We will truly be one Nation, with deep roots, a strong core, and a very new springtime of American greatness yet to come.

Andrew Jackson, we thank you for your service. We honor you for your memory. We build on your legacy. And we thank God for the United States of America.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Wow, wow, look at that. [Applause] Oh boy, oh boy. They love Dodd-Frank, don't they? They love it. [Laughter] Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Very nice. Sit down, please. Beautiful hats. [Laughter]

Well, thanks, Mike Pence. And Mike has been so great, and he's on your side, believe me. He's on everybody's side.

It's a pleasure to welcome the community bankers to the White House today. I want to, in particular, thank Cam Fine. Cam Fine. Cam—stand up, Cam Fine. Pretty well-known guy too, huh? [Laughter] Congratulations, Cam, for leading the Independent Community Bankers of America. And thank you for all being here today. Very, very special.

It's also a very special place, isn't it? When they say, how about coming to the White House, usually about 130 percent—we try and find, who are the extras that are coming? We always have to be careful. But it's a great place.

I also want to thank our Small Business Administrator, Linda McMahon. Where's Linda? Is she around someplace? Linda McMahon. Yes, thank you. Where? Thanks, Linda, for joining us today. She's doing an incredible job helping small businesses just like you. Or, some of you, I know you, you're not that small. I hate to tell you, you're not small. A lot of people would like to be small, right, Cam? They'd like to be small like these small-business people. But they're great people, employ a lot of people, and what they do through community development is amazing.

Community banks are the backbone of small business in America. Many of you are the reason that young families can purchase their first homes, farmers can buy their next tractor, and entrepreneurs can open up their first business, creating many, many new jobs in our country. So true—community banks. Over half of the small business and loans going to small business—and it's really a substantial number higher than that—come from their community banker. You provide critical access to capital, especially for the rural communities.

That's why, in the first 100 days, I have taken action to roll back burdensome regulations that undermine community banks, especially—I know you're going to be very disappointed at this—Dodd-Frank, right? [Applause] No, it's out of control.

And by the way, not only for community banks, for banks period. We can take community out of that one, right? [Laughter] No, Dodd-Frank, we're working on that right now and you'll see a very big difference, because you want to get out and make our country work properly.

I've directed my administration to provide regulatory reform and relief so that those rules don't shut down community banks—which have been shutting down—and small businesses and put them on a competitive disadvantage against the larger institutions. That's what it's done. It's really made you and given you such a tremendous competitive disadvantage. I have friends that are community bankers, and they've gone through hell over the last long period of time. It's really a much longer period of time than people would understand.

I've also directed Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin to review damaging Dodd-Frank regulations that encourage risky behavior from Wall Street. Everybody knows what that means. We're also working to achieve tax reform and dramatically lower taxes on businesses and the middle class. We're proposing one of the largest tax cuts in history, even larger than that of President Ronald Reagan. Our tax cut is bigger. [Applause] Bigger.

My administration is committed to working with each and every one of you to help Americans achieve their financial dreams so that—look, we're all here for the same thing. You know, we have a statement. It's really—I like it much better than even your hat—it says, "Make America Great Again," and that's what we all want, right? We want to all make it great again, and that's what's going to happen.

So I want to thank you all for being here. Very, very special people. You do a very, very special job, and the community really understands it. I know community bankers are the most popular person in their community, and they've built communities, and they've really been so badly hurt over the last number of years.

So we're going to change that. We're going to change regulations. We're going to give the incentives back, and you're going to grow and thrive and prosper. And maybe even more importantly, you're going to have businesses all over the country growing and thriving and prospering.

So I want to thank you for being here. It's a great honor. And you will see things happening like you've never seen before. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

