https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLX4wRfv17ulf4U6LXqSTlJFfcgVeYF9gh&si=rxhlo1y37wwgUKl1


4 years, our state has been lost in the wilderness of one party rule. 

And what is that 

The highest violent crime rate in our history, friends and family dying from pension record homelessness and the worst maintain roads and highways in America. These only a few of the reasons people are fed up. I'm leaving our state I'm running for government affects what's wrong and do which right? 

That's sure of I arrested rioters, rapis and mass murders locked up. Human traffickers, who preyed on women and children on my watch. The crime was down, we enforced the lot and everyone was accounted. 

This experience served me well when the people of wash and states have been a commerce or I kick down the door to get things done on everything from taxes and trade to health and homeland security, which brings us to today or you and I have a chance. I actually turn our feet around to have a government that serves that works that listens. And that's unafraid to tell the truth, we've been living in a state where the government has put region against region generation against generation and yes, and even the family against family. 

Dividing people is not the answer. We must work together. Despite being the Attorney General for 12 years far frozen does not take responsibility for the rapid increase in crime and homelessness. 

Business is Moving Out of seat and gibn's laughs and he thinks he deserves. Our message in our campaign 

Momous onlin. 

The most recent poll shows we're winning. I would be honoured to have you with me to have your support now, in the primary and further down-the-line as a car, I never backed down when banks are tough and lives round the line. I'm going to do the same as governor put together wilsure America, but we are a Government of the people, not people to be governed. 

We can't change the parents, but the future in recur. I'm be break. 

What gives? 

Actually, a parade bed with real point to keep it twisting. 

There's a political drama when it comes to the governor's race. Republican candidate Dave record, announcing today that he is withdrawing his name for consideration, saying he's no longer seeking an endorsement from the state's GOP party to be clear. Dave record is still running for governor but he's join us down the phone to discuss this surprising move. 

Good evening, need. So Dave, it's a pretty dramatic decoration that you made. Why did you come to this decision? 

Yeah, I look at the really at the carbon sounds. The right thing to do decisions. I didn't feel like it was that dramatic for me. 

What was traumatic was the antics of the party and party leaders? The party has been taking hostage by a small group of people m, m, my partner in the Republic authority, had been earlier disqualified. And they're from the receiving anonymous, my sticking started down. 

Remove from the calendar and develop for the nomination for the genitorial spot has been removed from the calendar and the and then the entire situation bulk enum, chaotic, yelling and screaming. Um, I felt to find best. Car course of action follow QI wish to settler with myself. 

Um, the shift was a Dishone, its perceptive of design, she created opportunity order chelles. Kennedy, it was already um bound be disqualified or criminal reasons, and we are trying to find a way to anon as the party leader. I'm still running forgovernment I am still running um um to beat bad Ferguson in November and my task now or beach voters wash instead, and IM the calm Carmen. 

Sense hello, everybody, a washish and speed that can bring somewhere a solution to the issues facing Hun the people of Washington. 

We were saying there that you. The party was trying to go for semi bird, that's the only person you're mentioning, because obviously, he's the only other Republican in the race with you right now. So what if you think of people there who say, Hey, is this the right move for you because you know you felt like you didn't have enough votes for an endorsement here for you, that you kind of just bailed out what do you speak to that? 

Nah, I think that humours, uh, that's not the reason at all the reasons. The process again was very blood. The school, like misburg, whoever disqualified for reasons that relate your criminal charge that is admitted to publicly and there was an temp this while shed by me and the meeting yesterday between 5 PM. 

But they couldn't find any reason to this as well. Finally, so they remove the entire nomination process from the agenda. Now, I know which was the search for me of the day, I am thinking all this morning. 

There was a race and to the process. Then all the rules for change change during the process, a evident and pushed into the day. Um, trying to find a way to endorse of candidate, second disqualify or better or for navigating the criminal region. 

But for me, it boil down to. Um, it's the car pushed to the court and Em Gamber, I'm taken a high road. Oh, this was a chaotic match today and I want to be. 

The Kennedy fragmenter so is common sense weezable, and they're moving forward are gonna be a I'm looking for the endorsement. Um dollars cross all u. Hello, how do you now, including Democrats, independent the public. 

So before kind of a 2 part question here before we have to go, so you are not running as an independent here, you're saying that you're still running as a Republican moving forward and second, how much of this is tied to former President Trump, because in our last interview, you did say that you do. Not support from President Trump and a lot of this right now. Many in your Jyoti party. 

They do not like you for that. 

Well, they don't likely for a number of reasons, but that's okay. I adept just a small faction at the party were actually the last 4, we were 6 to 1 with Republican $, and we also have 42%, exporting 3% of the 25% underside virus in the state, but are focused on only as 32 of those tools, so we're appealing to a vast majority of people across the speed. And I think that's probably going to build a new show. 

U an independent street and the courage to make the right decision, instead clean on the followers, death, and here's the difference in campaigns today. Already now, candidates now are running to Kish spread beer, that's red line, I sped a career. Fighting bears and they're fear and being honest, the true all were people that served in. 

But the shop's office and the people that served. Uh, when I was a member car shop, I don't plan on set the spready fear and I don't plan on anyway. 

Or a right there, we're running for governor I know we have a lot more to talk about. Is all this time, we have thank you for giving us some of your time today. 

Now you work around a bank. 

Look from farmer. The survival adjusted if I'll take in the place too one. No more 2 days a week, days water helps her legs too Ved's too and water, less yorda car. 

Well, Dave, I don't need a brief view. One on the breaking news out of Pennsylvania. Um, foresat, the rally sounds like there's at least 2 people dead. 

And the former President is injured. Once your initial reaction attitude interviews. 

Oh well, I mean initially, yeah, I think, like most Americans shark. And then, when you and a mum, just sort of barsing and think about what just happened, it's just a tragic and sad day, um, last of life, the suspect and the vectnment, still someone in a critical condition. They guard President trumpers is okay. 

Um, but yeah, I think for a while was just a shark and um, I'm just pointed and sad. This is so happening in our great country. 

What crosses your mind as somebody whose self campaign rallies, has also been an involved in-law enforcement, a career law enforcement official. In what what crosses remind? You see something like this app. 

Yeah, the good thing is they didn't have their mags are working at the suspect AI wasn't able to get into the mountain a bit. But aspiring from outside, so I guess the security or some a degree they may have to re-examine their parameters. There a little bit, I would do that uh, secondly, as you saw the um. 

Super service was immediately on top of the President. Uh, there was immediate a to the becomes so law enforcement, u part of that seemed to be working umm and I really appreciated the swift response of the secret service team. I have been in those situations not far from as member of Congress but Um, uh, out and about Washington abncy, reading people at the World War, 2 memorial Uma, the unfortunately, Capitol police fighter, somebody suspicious, looking with the backpack, standing alone to interview me, and we moved him line and found a weapon in his backpack, and I admitted to um. 

Thinking about using it when you got close enough to me. So fortunate that that didn't happen as Sharon, I haven't benched in the shoreline area, where um we learn that a woman with surply week for watch germ for my deputy savers was certainly trying to get access to my ghanatures, I was in full uniforms, was under my holster. On my gun belt. 

Um, so you know, I've lived with this for my career with my guess. This law enforce master, I keep my head on a swell. I watch everyone and everything. 

But um, I think everybody realises you can you so much um, but yet someone is an empt. Aren't meeting a serious crime like this? They will find a workp. 

When was that event in a in Western b? C? 

Uh, you know, I don't remember probably the last 4 years, my or 5 years, my term there. 

Yeah, there's so much we don't know yet about as you when I talk about what happened, Pennsylvania, but there is some initial reporting. It sounds like you have heard that the alleged shooter was on a rooftop outside the perimeter of the event. ABC News is recording at the AR15 was recovered and that the shots were fired from 2 to 300 yd away. 

Again, a lot, we do not know at this point that there is going to be discussions again about solve weapons. At least we can say that now is done, but we want the information we have you think that enters did the conversation based on what happened? 

I think gher. 

You know, um. 

What I think about, really uh, is access to rooftops, and normally, uh I was the Swart commander sheriff's office. So back in the days we did, we did a dignitary protection. Um, people coming in to and also involved as the sherpay WTO and influx of dignitaries, there and I know working with the secret service, one of the things we did Forrest, was to make sure that all the rooftops were secure. 

With any refund, especially power, a line of safe and so I'm not you're with the area is which in which this incident took place, the micro start would be that they may want to expand their the parameters as far as determining. You know, rooftops and m and the observation post to where the President Umm, our economy, other candidates may be standing. Um, I think that's that's a concern. 

I think that if someone is a temp on herding, killing someone, they will find a way to do it no matter what weapon they use. 

You and I both know that there's already conversations about political rhetoricness, country and and again, we do not know that yet about who this person is or what their intentions were um, but there is already a conversation you had on all the networks about political rhetoric in this country. We already noticed a lot of people. Putting our statement saying that means But the violent rhetoric needs to stop. 

What can you say about? They're just the teorant, one tone of of politics in this country right now. 

Yeah, I think that anytime we have a tragic incident. You like this occur. People all of a sudden become aware of the fact that there is this disrespect or each other as human beings, and it really, it does run along the lines of politics, so obviously, but sometimes runs along as we've seen along the linesters. 

Of religion, um and other strong opinions on other matters, other matters that may be important to people and I think what we need to be as Americans, as is understandable that we are a free country. And each everyone of us have, that has the freedom to thank um that we believe well, having fear has been far. In any way, I think what we need to do is get back. 

Respecting each other's opinion. Being able to understand we have the right to express those opinions. We respect each other. 

Um, as we voices opinions, not act out aggressively or whole names and social media provides a platform that we haven't had. Uh, in our back in my day, but, uh, I think it provides a sort of safe place for people to express. Um's very outrageous views would sort intensifies the argument and intensified the anger. 

I really what I, what I do at night relay is prey war, a peaceful nation, a respect for nation art formation. Am, um, if there's anything that goods, it's good comes out of this sort of about. Uh, I hope that the people really flows, and it begin to see what time change the rhetoric it's time, it's time to respect each other and understand we have the right to express our Gries. 

Well, I appreciate it, uh, it sounds like your event is still going on today to start to Jim Walsh back from marginal death, an event today. But sounds like your events still going on. 

Yes, it is still going on, and we're a bit late, has a traffic, but uh, I think it's it. You know, I I'd like the political rhetoric I has to stop. I know that it has to start, and uh, you know, in any public event that I'm out. 

My head is always on a swam. My stamp is always watching, we just are very Uh, aware what's going on around us, but to attach a political meaning to Des right now, I think is a step too far. We don't know what this person person was a thinking. 

We don't know he is associated with or affiliated with any terrorist organisation ornah, so let's not jump the conclusions. Let's wait until the backs camera. 

And without, I will hear It start. 

With jects energy every weekend is a 3 day weekend. Switch to the 3 day weekends plan. 

It's a move that confuses voters, and I don't wanna win that way. 

The worker as campaign staff learned, there were 3 Bob Ferguson's in the race after 5 news first reported Friday. 

I don't like what happened. Uh, I do condemn what happened and I hope that it gets resolved before the primary ballots go out so we can have as fair as an election as we possibly. 

Righter is no stranger to politics before being elected to Congress. 7 time serves king country's sheriff Republican says he doesn't want to nationalise the governor's rate. So Donald Trump visits to stay Riker, says he won't share the stage with the former President who record has been critical women up with record Kemp paediatric Eram carrison, a facility for drug-addicted newborns taken into custody by the state. 

Record helped establish the place and his children adapted 2 of the babies from here. The man who gained fame as the detective, who busted the Green River killer. This is battling fatal, reducing crime and supporting police would be his top. 

Stories, they feel like their hands retired. 

About an hour. 

Amber, the says currency leadership in recently passed laws like limiting police pursuits have allowed criminals to thrive in communities to suffer. He wants school resource officers back on campuses, and says police should not be worried about getting sued or fired. 

Those 2 things prevent police officers from taking action. Uh, don't want to go to jail, they don't want to lose their home and we need to build a law that protects the community for bad carbs, but also protects cars. Uh, in doing their job are 

Talk about increasing racial profiling, because I know that's going to come up if when people see the stories right there and say, well, that word 

Yeah, reckon that word is absolutely disagree with the whole concept of racial profiling. That should not be part of the police officer's job. And when someone is accused of reasham action, uh, they need to be held accountable. 

On the topic of abortion Dave record says he is pro-life. But he says the decision to have an abortion should be left up to an individual. He says if his elected governor he would not sign a bans on the procedure in the city of Washington, something he said would be very unlikely, anyway, why going olympiar, medicalsen? 

105 minutes. 

True, thank you. 

After 12 years representing Washington's eighth district in the US Congress, a record will not seek another term. Joinus now on the phone, Congressman Dave record good morning, Congressman. 

Good Morning. 

And a pretty nice run in the eighth district. It has been a long time Republican stronghold in Congress. You know, you stand a great chance to win another term, so why give up the seat. 

I'm old. 

Not answer. 

Were, you know, you just get a time in your life where you sort of evaluate to where you are now you know what's ahead for you in the future and the administers, that's the August to be with my kids, my grandkids and my wife and we just gaining at the decision. It was really time to spend So more quality time with with my family. 

Alright, well, I can't help but bring it at the timing is interesting. Centramia can't well up for re-election next November. Just as you relinquish your congressional seat, are you said in a saving yesterday that you could see this not just as a job but as a calling a colling, I will not walk away from so is that the plan or represent it? 

Uh, no again. I haven't given any consideration of all. When I decided to not think the election ub, I have always said, you know that I'll look at every opportunity as it's presented, but right now I have no intention of running for the senate and I've also pronounced about governing, it's really not Federation that firm, it's foremost on my mind. 

Um, I still have over year plus to serve in car. I have just someone asks me by watched my plan and I have never really had a plan. God has always had a plan on my way, so you know, I'm going to see what God has planned after January 19. 

Alright fair enough. Now you took out a bit of heat for refusing the whole town hall meetings this year, saying that Republican town halls around the country had evolved into public shouting matches. Do you regret that decision. 

Ohy, absolutely. No. If I will continue through on this campaign, I can been conducting my campaign a very similar way. 

I think that we live at a time where there's too much um, anger IU make myself available to the constituents and a variety of different ways. And we continue to reach out and listen to my constituent and fact, you know, that's one of the qualities I think that. Has helped me maintains a tough seat and I hope that they're the next representative or have the same ability are the same patients to be a good listener. 

Um, it'd be a good representative of all the people of the district, not just the demograph or Republican Constituency. 

So the President yesterday Congressman announcing that he will end the darker programme, putting at the Congress to figure out how that program protects some 800000 children from deportation people who came to this country legally with their parents. Now you are one of the many lawmakers on both sides of the Isle, who said that. It was the wrong move, and Congress obviously has a full plate this session, so where does redressing darker? 

Well, on the priority was for Congress. 

Well, for me, it's hire on the priority list. I'm, I'm advocating for it to be higher the priority list for for leadership. I think it's something that we need to address and address that quickly as a supporter of the dark program, the fact of bridges is a non coast month. 

That um about is legislation with ov, which also addresses dissum. I'm, I'm more of a promier for an entire immigration reform and the talk. Of course would be part about, as would each 1BH2A um biza revisions these things that we need to do, along with protecting our borders, if we were able to move, did immigration reform down, we? 

Wouldn't have to worry about sanctuary cities, some of the other Our initiatives with an immigration reform we could move on and focus on tax reform trade. Another thing that people like turned about. 

You were one of the few Republicans who voted against the house care bill, which the President pushed hard for but after it past, he called Mein. Do you agree with the pointed pressure, the prison continues to put on Congress to get these bills passed. 

Well, I said, from the very storic that we missed a great opportunity in January to reach out the different. You know, to the Democrats, because we both recognise their weaknesses and flaws in Obamacare and we could have worked out. Those are agreed upon weaknesses bows, I protect the unconsequencies from higher premiums and coalpays. 

Um, and we missed the chance we decided to do the same thing. The Democrats yet, and that is to just do a party line bill. I Democrats, the dat and look how that's working out, not so well, the Republicans did that, because how that's working out, not so well and I think that's a, you know, it's time that we responde with conference right now. 

It's time that we step our work together. And move these things forward for the benefit of the Earth, people 

Running tight on time here, a Congressman, but I want to talk to you about bipartisanship. The President is sided with Democrats on a build, a fun hurricane Harvey victims tied to a 3 month deal to raise the debts around Democrats, hailing this as a great example bipartisanship, and as you mention, it's been. Shortened supply in Congress now did agree that the president's moved there. 

But I agree that the President needs to work with both parties and I think it's a bit. And it is an example I think that we should have UK 4 billion years, with the Republican authority coming to an agreement working with the democratic team, the Democrat party. Um, but, uh, you took them by surprise, which is, of course. 

I don't think the you know the right way to go about. This should have been a cooperative effort from the Republican party. Oh, you're in carrus. 

From the presidents administration, both reaching out to Democrats same time working together, taking 11 AI is part of this cult, we've part of this government by surprise. 

Oh, is a measured take from you. They really appreciate your time. Congress, a Dave record from the eighth district and we wish him the very best in the future. 

Why I will appreciate the opportunity to talk to you? Thank you so much for 

Please welcome New York representative Alexandria Ogan. Thank you for your I too. They will 

Pala heavenly and team hua. Hello, everyn out of the hn'. But yeah, better thank you to coga for your energy, thank you, Camella, Harry and Tim laws for your vision science. 

Thank you sure Biden for your leader. Not 6 years ago I was taking online orders as a waitress in New York City. I didn't have Health Insurance. 

My family was fighting off foreclosure, and we were struggling with bills. After my dad passed away, unexpectedly from cancer like billions of Americans, we were just looking for an honest shape, and we were tired, are the cynical politics that seem blind to the realities of working people. It was then only through the miracles of democracy and community, but the good people are the bronze and queens. 

So someone like me. So we'd like the Van in Congress and America in my heart, I know and that same class of help and aspiration, we will ask them, Alex Carol heads and then wool as President and vice President of the united states of America. How long theatre tonight? 

Because America has before us a rare impressive opportunity? Inchamla Heath, we have a chance to elect a President who is for the middle class because she gets from the middle class, we understand we urgency, have red checks and groceries and prescriptions. She has ADS committed to our reproductive and civil rights as she is to taking on corporate green. 

And she is working tirelessly to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and bringing pastages car and how to learn. I've been a leader who understands I see a leader with a real commitment to a better future for working families and Jakarta. We have to help her win figured, we know danal tramp. 

I would start this country for a dollar if it meant lying his own packet and wristing the palms of this well street friend and science about appearing about Howard, 2 big Union Buster thinks of himself as more about pastry and a woman who have bots are you read about? We're not bad? What food, not AI tools should be use. 

You cannot move this country if you on me. Fight for the wealthy and big business texts were all extremely capable storytellers. It's fight for its people are people working people and roded Americans like bots, tenders and factory workers and fast food test years or contacts and around their feet are there is that's jobs out there. 

Hello, ever since I gotta exit, Republicans had a taxment by saying that I should go back to bars attending, but let me tell you. I'm happy to any day of the week because there is nothing wrong with working for a left there. Imagine imagine having leaders in the White House who understand that. 

Leaders like Carmela at team just because choice is clear to us does not mean that the pack will be easy over the Saturday 8 day. We will have to pour every hours every minute every moment. So making history on November there, but we cannot send Carmela and Tim to the White House alone to get there, we must ourselves electrom democratic majority in the house and massage so that women deliver. 

How can they possibly contender? Try to avoid rents and child care. Cambo is for you, if you were a senior who had to go back to work because your retirement didn't stretch far enough. 

Calana is for a year if you're immigrant family, just starting your American story Carmela is for year America under 20 club. When we knock on our neighbour's door. Organise our communities and a left pamalads to the presidency. 

On November 5th, we will send a loud message that the people of this nation will not go back, which Iles another PAN and opened the door to a nude, a one that is for the paper, as by the people like band thank you very much. 

Whatever business means is the print. Yeah, this like recently, the fun package, so this room decided for the new figures take a big guards, far poorly inductivity, even get their rant out there, so they prinant t-shirts, bottles and cats and Toshi or suited a tool refresh. So this remainder Remo, and that back all bad, you've disapprent the principal lozer, pretty all. 

It's 20:05 % up for newcustomers at this sprint dot coma. 

And now we shift to the border crisis tobay, Washington Congressman beve Riker toured the federal detention centre in seatech to get a first-hand look at what's going on there. 

Is now exclusively you talk about what the tour was like and help us break down the immigration crisis. So what do you observe today? But we were fortunate are enough to meet with about 30 or 40 women today for about an hour and it meant really, uh, compassionate, um, tragic stories really Um, about their travels here in separation of uh, learn from their children. 

Now, the women I spoke to today, along with the rear petty Marie um don't have children in custody. But they are still separated from their families being in the facility, so um they want the cases adjudicated they want things to move forward and wanna know what their future holds, and that's really the bottom line. The other thing that was very, very clear is a Central South America are on fire with drug abuse, human trafficking gang, a activity, corruption, corrupt police departments, military and government officials, and when I ask them, is there any country in Central or South America if you could go too? 

And feel safe and they said, no, that's why we're coming to the United States. There is feel like there's no place else to go. 

Let's talk about the compromise. Immigration builder did not make it in Congress this. We'd break down the key points of better why you think it failed. 

Well, I mean, I think it failed, because number one, look, it's just as simple. Sadly, it's a book. Democrats are gonna work for Republican bill Republicans are not to support any language that contains anything at all. 

It has to do with a any Democrat language that might deal with um. Language of people were defined as being. Not means amnesty or liberals. 

They have to. Since our citizenship, which I have been a favour from, I don't know all 5 wherever scheme a Congress. Even in favour, this immigration ability, 21, Republicans voted in favour of this um, the far, far, right? 

And um, some in the middle Republicans wore rowbots, and all the Democrats were no bots, so I've been very vocalness, I disagree with the president's actions I voted for this bill to reunified families provided money for housing. Residential housing for families together, I sign the discharge the petition only 20 Republican sign. This is the Democrat bill that they brought down to the floor for us to sign and move forward. 

I recently regard this vote yesterday was the 20 of us signed under this bill, do you think what are the prospects for this particular building moving forward? So there's another bill, which I'm a co-sponsor which is the family reunification billion. So that bill didn't come to the flooria. 

So what I'm hoping for us and when we get back, the settled, my house are both out right now when we get back, we have an opportunity to vote on this. We have to get these families back together again. 

Let's talk about the 11 million people who are undocumated in this country. They're living here. They're working here, they're paying taxes here, but they're not getting the benefits many terms of those taxes. 

How do we address the root cards and fix the whole system? Isn't that something we should. 

Yeah, so I mean, that's what I've been saying since I came to Congress are the immigration system. The entire system is broken. It means to be repaired, the problem is that you're not going to get it a full immigration reform bill pass. 

Because you can't get enough votes because every time you add something, get about A voter too disappears, so what the attempt now is try to kick this in pieces, which then sometimes complicates it even further. But the root causes the turmoil. It's occurring in Central South America, though if there's no feeling of safety, there are no jobs, people being killed, raped, beaten, um, and they're coming to America to be Safe to have religions. 

Is there a possibility of finding that here? So do feel like America can be big enough to welcome this I think so I asked I asked the woman I said, would you rather stay in your country if you were safe if you had a job and if you had a home and you can protect your family and provide for them. They wanted to stay in their country so far. 

The solution of this prom is to find a way to work with the government's front Central South America look out after the wrong families, right? It's sort of like families here in Kingdom around this area, domestic violence and sexual abuse metal views, they run away from home, right? So Guatemala, a family of crypt of guates. 

They're doing the same thing to their own family. I am and end of just running away, and so yes, we do have to open our borders just to some. But we also had to be very, very careful here because we know that MS protein is and it's just so active, so violent. 

So brutal, we have to protect our own services by keeping those people out and those that are violent noise corcem, I'm very happy. Oh yeah, very congression. Thank you very wish for doing this today. 

Thank you for having exition. 

Did you trust life cycle manager helps you do what your organisation means AI to do? Prevent outges to manage risks and force policy. That's digital fast for the real world. 

One of the things I told herros that. Um, hello, you you'll find out because reality will hit when you come back here if you actually represent a district. Uh, that is a very evenly split its district as far as as party, including the independence. 

So um she will find that she'll be pulled to the left by members of her own party to take votes. Far a laugh, did she mean not wanna take? And she'll also be pulled to the right or she may not wanna be, uh, but she's going to have to make a decision. 

And those bots will be the ones that make 50% of her Constituency, unhappy with her no matter what she does and then come back and have the courage to explain? Uh, you're votes. 

When Republican, their vibrant was elected to congres in 2004, and the 8 congressional district looked like this, it was situated in king and cross counties and had a beliel area suburban core. It was known as a swing district, which meant the Republican Congressman was vigorously targeted by the Democrats and that led. To some tough electric campaigns But re district thing is right. 

Big change to the eighth congressional district. The new, a narrow includes sprints of king, parents, q paths and chalon countries, it is a more rural congressional district and for Dave record is now far more Republican friendly. At least it appears to be that way. 

I should conference when the Riker joints, without a talk about the change for registrating, has brought to the eighth congressional district and it's big change because you are now the only congressional district in the state that there is West and East or in the folks on the episode of our resilience. 

Yeah, true, and we're very excited about the opportunity to represent the kinders county, szol county and a little piece of Douglas cowy, which is the city of is pornoci. But a lot of people don't know that we also have acquired the entire city of arbour now in the district, so we go all the way to a 5 on the West Hill, and now include Pacific, and then essentially We's sure East and continues down the easive East king in Pierce, wrap Montmartre I'd like to say, we have 2 juwe's over the speaker mcneering lake shaland now, so the furthest Northeast, the city that the people might recognise the name. 

As to hicken, which is at the ecological, we're fairy to get there. Yeah, ferries, so 

You're not representing them yet, but yet it will be um of ukrai. 

If we're back. 

Um, but you know, you already heard this that some over there are saying that what does he know about it? Yeah, and we're in broken through that, the financial world publisher has already stated that you know is going to be more focusing on the West and the least because of the base. Yeah. 

Well, you know, when I took office here in the incurierity district and back in 2005, it was concerned that uh, I would put on my focus on bellvy and nurser island in Newcastle, etc. And forget about and they're awarding ground and the in employed, buckling and we've spent a lot of time, I'll throughout the district and I tend to do the same. The good thing is that when we meet, we've been over there a number of times the last track, go just 2 times again last week in lingsburg. 

Um, a concern is expressed by a couple of people, but by the end of the meeting, avoid the the the welcome man is really uh. I've been thrown out to the red carpet, so to speak the carments, and then Wow, I'm very happy to meet you to hear to listen to you. I'm excited now about having user our Congressman, so 

If you're looking from this from a political standpoint, actually it benefits you can out well. 

You know it. 

Our ecosysum, in what you faced Euro and society, who have been representing this district Freya, is some tough reelections, and now you become an area that's more conservative. They are presumably more Republican. There are is that going to change the way you vote in Congress, now, you know u. 

You're back 2005, and look at the pictures of me and look at pictures today to the barrels taken the toll. But uh, no, I'm excited again about representing both sides of the state and I can ask that question too, is whether or not it's gonna change the way I vote and and the question sort of it makes sense to me, but then another another sense, sort of puzzles me in a way, because People know me and they know that sense of Ben sheriff, since I've been a member of Congress, I've set from day one that I based my decisions on votes on facts and you can't kick that out of an old car. 

Oh, you gather the facts, you're Jill Frey, dragnet. Show just the facts, man you gather the facts, and then you make decisions based on the facts and course the input of your Constituency and And the you're not always going to make the right decision, because you're a human being in a in order in a and you're gonna make mistakes, but I think people really appreciate the fact that and not just a follower, I'm I thank her and there I'm not trying to try to lead. 

No ask about one issue that you will have to really deal with. And that is immigration and immigration reforms, particularly in a rural area that the hands-on foreign workers and has a dependent on 

Hello? 

People being able to be available to come and do this, and since there has been a well focus on crackdown that has been very blesome in that part of the state, right? Where are you going to come now? Are this issue of immigration reform. 

Well, you knows I've talked to, um, uh, people on the agricultural business on the East Side of the mountains and the and sometimes people forget, we have it concerned over here. We have dairy farms and interest. I'm candium, in Perth county, there are higher immigrant workers to come in and milk their cows. 

And the the Afro of losing their forums, if they don't have access to that work, um, poor and so all of those folks, I really understand from what I'm hearing from now, if there needs to be some firm enforcement immigration laws, we have to abide by the laws in this country. I also, agree, and I agree along with him. It needs to be a policy, a language set aside. 

That protects agricultural industry, uh, across this country so that just pushing state or it's affected country. Uh, because there are a lot of small farms and orchargies and businesses farm small, a family farm business. that are affected by the lack of access to business pool of workers. 

They'll lose their farms, so I arrange the meeting with t Chairman of the are of the committee ahbour responsible for immigration, I set up a meeting with dark Hastings. Gini Hera, Kathy Maurice Roger's myself to make sure that the chairman knows we need to have a Loire that specifically addresses this issue to the best to oul musee museum. Agricultural professionals to have access to the school. 

Sure amount of time left. I got ashed a couple. Other things, and that is, have you uh, are you for sure? 

Not a run for us sent work out what tools? 

Oh, I'm not gonna run against your account well, UI am focused on the unwinning this next election for the new eat district and I look forward shooting. The people in the neuit's come January, a nuclear. 

And looked at it at it at all worry, we decided not to change to 

Oh it yeah, I think the last time you argued. Yeah, I think you have to an school political world. You have keep all your options open, you have to examine your opportunities and evaluate your chances of you know, succeed, hero there and where you need to be it where you think, you can accomplish them. 

I think they're being on ways and means right now. Um, with some scenority being on the healthcare stubting and the trade step committee sole important critical for watching and state. I'm in a good place and the foreigners over, they're recognise the benefits of trade and by possession on a trade subject. 

Gave out a middle left. I wanna do extra time here a couple of other issues. I'd like to quickly get some feedback. 

I knew our old dab of Sher has left to go to another positions to strayamatters now, in that position in our job requires going to run these abiliti. I heard that's there, yeah, always, there is no support. 

Oh, I'm sorry I told people like, maybe I should just draw my knee and Bella, you know, really screw everything, draw the whole world into a Tissy. Yeah, I'm i'm not going to endorse, sir anyone right away. I want to talk to Jan, of course, against Steve stranders spend to meet with me, and you know there have been some other names out there that have been unced around at the Oh I have it a surface yet, so uh, I think that um edit, you know it may be time for someone from the outside to be the Cher. 

Because I was. 

Worse, you know, in 30 years to be used the electure and the first internally I appointed Sue and interpreted. I need a great job, and now you have an opportunity for the people in kingdoy to make a choice between someone who's Benning and someone whose speech. 

Not of state issues. And I'm really sure I'm time here, but I want to get your quick responses or vote for against the shift, our 2 marijuana legislation. 

I never share my votes when I'm in as far as my personal votes and state issues. But um, I'll, I'll show my opinion UI believe there is some, uh, know if you want to talk about swamp marijuana detes set against it, I'm an exha and I know what happens. I got my opinions as too where that reads a people usually, so I'm against a legalising part in that regard. 

But my mother recently passed away from pancreatic cancer. They gave her semedication that had small amounts of cannabis mixed with similar medication. It seemed to ease repain as she was passing away nah. 

I think that there's more to be worried about medical marijuana. 

Clean the referendum. Have you decided that a yoga weapon? That's the same 6 marriage debate during the stade? 

Alke, I've always taken a strong standard. Now, I think that we all deserve to be treated equally. But u my myr religious background, this does not allow me to endorse so a marriage other than a marriage that exists between a man and woman. 

Conference dabre, thanks so much for joining us. So what do we know at this hour about the victims and Congressman school essays? 

Well, we know the good news is that everyone is alive or anything in the hospital. The red trigger begin. We're taking care of um, the last of information on the republer season, the schooze was that he was in critical condition may have another surgery. 

But um, I think that's in AI will be released by the medical professionals, critical condition. And you can know normal is a normal thing when you have surgery usually come out of surgery, unconscience. Because you've you're on medication, so um, let's keep our prayers. 

I thoughts and prayers with family and pray that he fully recovers as well as the other meccabinet. 

And you are not at this baseball practice. But you spoke to someone who was what did they describe about the experience and what happened? 

So I mean, actually, these these these these these these these are friends of mind that were there this morning. I was not there, but you know, it has reported 50 shots or more people taking cover wherever they could find cover. Um, as Steve was down on the ground, people were trying to get to his side, given a some dead reaching in riverct train colomers. 

On his honest leg, but you know, the main thing I think here actually remember of that. Um, because he was there, he has security, because he's part of leadership country capital, Capitol police officers, whether they were able to take swift action. The police are in Algeria were there in the less than A Or 33 or 4 minutes. 

I think and um. And so the police response was fantastic. The carpet says, I would you know, um, as I would doom, and don't run toward age, and what happened is that they boget, also? 

Um, fortunately, their wounds are recover, I praying for them too, but ter, uh, if they hadn't been there, this could have been A Vera, very, very strategy, tragedy with more doubts and more injuries. 

So what kind of questions does this raise? And what conversation are you having now about security measures moving forward. 

Well, the scur. He's always been the forefront for me and foremost on my mind with my staff, especially my district officers, vacuing DC. Now I know that the officers are secured go through checkpoints, but in my district offices, they're just in, you know, your regular office buildings, not built for security, so we've installed Cameras in the parking cameras at the front door of my office, both offices and went u, we have locked doors and we have income system. 

We have again video that you can see the person standing at the front door if they have an appointment, don't have an appointment, my staff. I went over security. Our procedures again today reminding them. 

But when you come to the parking lot, make sure you scan the parking lot when you arrive or anything that looks unusual. Maybe arrive in pairs, maybe leaving pairs. Um, a lot of time. 

Sadly, events like this spur carpeican, so I'm concerned that sort thing may happen again. 

Our other members taking this as seriously or these conversations happening on campus right now. 

So so this morning, we had a briefing from the sergeant arms and the police due from the Capitol police and they went over some of the around security protocols that had been in place nor in place for most offices across the country, but then encouraged them our members to take additional precautions if they haven't got 3. Things in place and then also a report I see, something say something sort of mentality don't hesitate. The Cole also usual local police department and sheriff's offices. 

So if you need them are having advance, make sure that your local police insurance officers know where you're going to be that you may expect trouble, um, even if you don't let him know where you're gonna be. So they know there's an event to Congressman or woman in town. Movies are all common sense things. 

But I think you know. Sadly as members of Congress were required to be in the community talk about the part of a community in sadly, today's world we have to be used very. carcass am aware of um, or our surroundings to make sure that were safe. 

And as lastly, there's been a bipartisan message of prayer support and unity. What is the mood on Capitol helm today? 

Uh, so we met before we went on the floor where you heard some of the words. They group from a minority leader, similar words spoken by both of them. But other members are also got up and said, you know, and I've said this over and over we are a microcism of this country and people look to ask the hero, speak a watch or demeaner. 

Um, we have a role to player this week of look in the mirror our behaviour is. It's watched and is sometimes sadlitated by those people that might be easily influenced by harsh words and the I think. 

The level we knock on the beach. 

Members of Congress need to be more aware of every word. They say is true. I'm watched by someone somewhere in this country and we need to be more respectful, we need the examples, good examples to the rest of the country and respecting each other's idea starts can have a respect for a big discussion on your issues versus. 

Hangar, name calling and adept. You know, just today, resulting in violence. 

No matter what type of severe as my UN the buyer can help you have fewer death and relieve your ADS symptom test fires an ad treatment for people 12 and over. It is not a rescue medication. Don't take to inspire if you're allergic to it allergic reactions may occur can be serious, rather eye allergy can happen. 

Don't stop your adverage treatments unless a doctor tells you to tell your doctor if you have a parasite infection or your Asma worsense, sore throat, joint and back pay may occur, avoid. No matter who you are, ask your Asthma specialist about ceasefire today. 

The leadership is where the breakdown life in my personal opinion, it's where the breakdown really occurs. And those people have, the, you know, the voices, the big voices, the Polly, palpits and Iran evening, new shows. They're the ones who I think can do more in the words and language that they use. 

I had to bring this country together, I think remember member, there's a lot of relationships that are they're friendly that are productive, uh, when things get done, but on the bigger scope of things, when there's a struggle for power, the leaders of both parties um te town to a use some very inflammatory. Language. Are in trying to regain and retai can keep power 

I guess the questions here about the public media. Obviously the Springs at home, we have something at stake here. You voted for the budget that would have eliminated funding province pb, that was the first house budget in the last week he broke ranks with the former Republicans was inorgated a vote against the measure that would have defunded NPR uh, talk about Your stand on there. 

Is that first pub is the second goal to explain yeah. 

The first vote, of course, that's the that was the major bill nettea cu $100 billion. So there are cuts arena, and these programs. There are examples of some of the cuts hype or wasted taxpair dollars, and so there's always something in a major bill that you're not going to like, and there are things a major bills that you don't even a way to weigh those things. 

And we make a decision on whether or not and for me, the overarching, a principle hero, was with again. Now I'm voting for that large abill was that we've got to bring our spending under control, we can't continue to spend talking, we don't have we. Can't continue to borrow from China. 

I think people really get that. The Empire vote are, in contrast to it was a separate vote u that was an embryo cut and then at least it was portrayed as a cut. So to examine the language in the bill. 

There is actually milk. too to impur, but what happens. Is it creates a situation where certain funds can't be used for purchasing strip product? 

Is a federal money Sam ban? 

So uh, what it did then of courses would have restricted MPR from purchasing certain programs, which would have affected not our area. Here were very populated, but would have affected areas across this country that term are unpopulated, or I should say, have a less population are rural areas that would have been affected. And not had access and Uh, to some of the great programming on m, p, R, um, in fact, in some parts of our country, this is the only radio of 

Hello, yeah, but to Alaska. 

Yeah, and if I want to really to mention that that's u, there's a principle here. So number one. No, there were occurs number 2, this is a program that we need to keep in tact because it's valuable to especially to specific term part of our population and third and for me. 

There was a principle broken by the Republican party and I'm going to show us today with the people that watch. Are you're sure. Um, our promise was the old bills would be on computer online for 72 hours for the public review that promise wasn't kept. 

In this case. In fact, Democrats brought to our attention before the boat was taken on the floor of the house and the ruling that was made, uh for me, personally was a embarrassment, too. Um, that the I think the entire Republican party in leadership. 

We make a promise of 72 hours that you don't spurt Harrison say you make a ruling by the chair that says, well, it's not exactly 72 hours, it's 3 days. It's in a 3 day period so it could be 65 hours, and the So I decided that to, you know what I bot, I'm not drop with the problem, so I think it was wanna beat. 

Worst for a full 

Will you? 

Continue to support, I guess public media is funding. Um, keeping that in tank. 

Men't Bron azural and region, a amateur supporter inadevocate for a public TV public radio I need a great cruel back programming. They growing as you know, were talking beforehand dinner umm, yeah, the Prince of people have made some mistakes. Everybody makes mistakes. 

Let's let's, sir, hold those people accountable that have made mistakes, but does not punish the entire country in the system. Because a few people I have a, we sorry to make decisions that they're really not run um archaeology, and really don't portray what you mean be our spirit. 

Thank you. Mistress speaker are doing immigration Heritage Month. I wanna recognise the great spirit and desire for better life that law lives within our nation's immigrants today and those before them, America's immigrants have started companies. 

Vegan small contributed to their local communities. Better or friends? 

Family and neighbours. 

But our immigration system is broken. It is failing the many children who were brought to the United States outside of their own control. And that's why I've sponsored the coast Bart with the bridjack, which um, and the recognising Americans silver back to protect these children, we'll only want to live The American dream, I believe Mr. 

Speaker that we have to work together. We must work together to pass a long-term immigration reform bill, that's secures our borders. Yes, but just as important Protects, our children protects the families and the workers. 

I want nothing more. 

Then it to be a park of this great country. 

And live American dream, are you about
