https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kb6fH7H6L2c


Yeah, I think news to most members of Congress, well, probably, all since I chair the trade committee and the chairman of the ways and means committee and I both put out a statement today and you know stating matter of fact that we think this isn't bad policy, bad move and we should be working with our friends. These are our allies, so You know we, we continue to have conversations but every now and then. Decisions are made by the administration that are, I think a surprise to everyone. 

As chairman of the subcommittee on trade, neither you nor chairman Brady appeared to be consulted on this decision. 

No I mean, did we we, uh, are in? You know frequent communication, but there was no consultation in regard to the announcement. 

How does this impact NAFTA negotiations? Because I know you've been working on that, and and when we spoke last via talk back from DC, you were optimistic. 

Yeah, well, I just got off the phone with the ambassador Mexican ambassador just an hour or so ago and his message to me was the Mexican government is thoroughly frustrated and as would be expected, right. I think from Mexico's point of view and rightly so they have from the very beginning been on board been at. The table been willing to compromise, been willing to negotiate the Canadians have to to a certain degree, a little more resistance there and a little different negotiating tactic, I should say, but You know, the United States has been the one who has threatened on more than 1 occasion to remove themselves from the negotiating negotiating table. 

We should be the ones bringing people together. So I think that and one can only sort of assume here I guess that this is a negotiating tactic in order to get done in order to bring Canada and Mexico to Come to the conclusion that they need to adhere to the demands of the United States in regard to NAFTA and so the pressure that they want to put on Canada to Mexico would bring them to the table to an agreement, which I think is not a good strategy, yeah. 

So I mean, it definitely implies pressure, but do you worry this type of tactic backfires, and already you're telling me that Mexico and Canada have expressed a lot of frustration and the EU, they're already threatening retaliatory tariffs, so does this backfive. 

Already yes, yeah, so the retaliatory actions have already been announced by the EU and Mexico and Canada, the language that they're using is, you know, in the world of Foreign Affairs and tactical language, I guess, I would describe the language that they've used and their releases is very strong and they're not pleased. At all, and they're not mincing words as it relates to their displeasure in the way the United States is behaving, and they're slapping on tariffs that could amount to billions and billions of dollars for the United States and exports. 

I'm talking apples from what I've read. The national reporting about Mexico's threats against apples and cranberries, those are some of Washington's top exports. 

Right. Yep, it's going to hit the apple industry. Here we, you know, we have been in again in communication, I just talked to ambassador lighthizer, as I said a couple weeks ago and expressing concerns about the ag community not just here in Washington State, but across the country, because my responsibility, as the trade chairman is nationwide and just saying that we're going to get retaliated, and we're going to lose market share. 

And we're going to have fruits and vegetables. And what other agricultural product that we have rot? And and lots of farmers will lose money may lose their farms may lose their homes. 

I mean, this could be a dramatic impact across the country if they continue down this path and ambassador listened. But as you saw today, they went ahead and moved forward with these tariffs, and what bothers me is that they're, they are playing with the lives. Of American citizens, their homes, their businesses, their children, their livelihood, and not only that, it's the same in Canada, they're playing with the lives of those people and Mexico and expand that to Europe and it just kind of ripples across you withdraw from tpp and Japan has been very active in their visits. 

With us, you know, expressing their displeasure, and as is all the other 11 tpp countries we've been in communication with, so even get visits from South America who are concerned, not even some of those countries not involved in tpp, but the invasion of the Chinese efforts. To create a relationship, a trade relationship and a partnership, and their fear that they may become a Venezuela, or a Cuba, and that's so it just goes beyond this economic impact, it goes to this national security drug smuggling human trafficking, it just expands out into this into this world that's chaos. 

So for the farmers and the folks in the state and other agricultural producers across the United States who are extremely concerned, more concerned than they've been in the past. But where do we go from here? What happens next. 

So I think the good news here is that if I can back up just a little bit when the administration said, OK, we're going to, we're going to impose these tariffs and they were going to do it that week by the end of the week, chairman Brady and I crafted a letter we got. A 110 Republicans within 48 hours to sign onto this letter and set at least have an exclusion process implemented. 2 exclusion processes one would be country by country, the other would be by business or product. 

And so the administration listened to the 110 Republicans paid attention to that letter. And that's how the exclusion process was put in place and now they've decided that they're moving past that process. Not excluding Canada and Mexico that was one of our first requests, now they have applied those tariffs. 

The business exclusion is complicated, cumbersome and disjointed. So a lot of businesses are frustrated by that, so now the process is we have made our statements today, we're going to we're going to try and open the door again to get the administration. They need to come to Congress and explain their actions to us. 

And that's going to be the next step that we'll demand a meeting with with lighthizer, with secretary Ross and Navarro, and Whoever else we need to have come app on the hill, but they need to explain their actions, and I think that's going to be something that chairman Brady commands, and as we return back to Washington DC. 

Next week there are 2 more questions for you, number 11 of the other consequences that we haven't ant talked about is potential increase in cost to construction. If we raise if we put tariffs on steel and aluminum. I mean those are also products that we'll have increased cost to the consumer affecting the cars construction, I mean, we have cranes all over the place in this region. 

So what do you think that 

Well, it's not going to only impact the cost of construction, but it'll impact the cost of everything that we use. 

Airplanes. 

Airplanes, cars food across-the-board prices will increase. 

So I mean, Washington State is truly one of the biggest places affected by geographical proximity to the places we're talking about, being 1 of the more trade dependent, most trade dependent states, and then also our industries here. 

40% of our jobs here in Washington State are directly connected to detray, and they are the highest paying jobs normally across-the-board on average, and so when we're no longer able to export and our imports are decreased, that ports are affected our jobs that have been created as the port of Chicago and we call ourselves that because we export and transport, 70% of the products that enter our ports across the country are moved out of this state. We only keep about 30%. So there are numerous jobs, as you can see, that would be connected to that effort, those would all be affected, I mean we're on a trade war right now. 

I mean, that's that's something we've been trying to avoid Congress has been trying to avoid, but you can see if one country says we're slapping tariffs now, today, 3 countries well, the EU total Mexico, Canada, they say fine, we're going to do that to China. Now add the China into that our largest market, they're going to slap tariffs on our imports into their countries. We're not going to be able to sell our products. 

Those countries will look elsewhere for the products that we have been exporting to them has already Begun to happen in countries like Peru, they're looking for their beef, somewhere else, they're looking for other products, construction machinery that sort of thing, Colombia, all of those countries would be looking to China and other countries for the supplies that we've been exporting to those countries. 

And my final question, how do you think this affects upcoming midterms? Because a lot of these agricultural communities and communities affected were places, regions that voted for President Trump. 

I mean, that's a difficult question to answer, I think if you look back to the election like most people were surprised and shocked that President Trump won with the rhetoric that was displayed by both candidates really and I think that as we move forward, you know, I don't know what moves the needle anymore on. Voters, it's hard to, it's kind of hard to decipher that. 

I mean, it's too early to know full impact. 

Yeah, and I do think that it's early, but I'm, you know, today you've seen the stock market, just to take an absolute nosedive, and I think that's an indicator that you know, people aren't happy with the way this is kind of a herky-jerky confusing. If there is a strategy, it doesn't seem to be clear to me.
