https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuzYCjiWEd4

[Dave Reichert]
I'm excited to be here tonight. You notice I didn't say happy. I'm very anxious to be here tonight.

But I want to say, just for a moment, if you could imagine how you got to where you are today. How did you personally get to where you are today? It's all about the choices that you've made.

It's about the choices your parents made, that your bosses made, that put you in the place that you are today. Same true for me. Choices that my parents made that caused me to run away from home, from domestic violence.

Choices that I made later on in my career. I also believe that God has a plan. You know, the bigger question is, how did Washington State get to where it is today?

Through choices, right? It's through choices that we made to elect leaders in our state that, in my opinion, made the wrong decisions. That led us to a road where we have one of the highest crime rates.

One of the highest homelessness rates. People dying in the streets from fentanyl. One of the highest costs of living in the country.

And one of the most, I guess, failing educational systems in the country.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, I think it's obvious. Crime is out of control. And why is that?

We don't hold people accountable. We don't hold people responsible. There's no consequences when people commit crime.

Part of the problem is we've legalized drugs. We've legalized even fentanyl. We have people laying in the streets in the doorways of our businesses.

That's why people are leaving. There's a business here in Spokane that just shut its doors. A popular restaurant, having been open here 20 years, they just shut down.

They just closed their doors. Why? Because they had aluminum foil from drug use blowing into their store as customers walked into their store to have dinner.

What we're going to do is we're going to enforce the law. And people smile when I say that. That's obvious, but we're not allowing cops to enforce the law.

We have to enforce the law. We have to support our police officers. We have to elect officials that support our police officers.

We have to make sure, yes, that our police officers are held accountable to the policies and laws of Washington State. But we also have to make sure that when they make a life and death decision, that the Attorney General's office is not going to come after them and sue them or charge them with a crime.

[Dave Reichert]
Okay, here's the deal. He put sexual offenders in McNeil Island. We just released 68 violent offenders this year.

Are you kidding me? One out of seven of those reoffend, and they're in our community. Hey, look, I don't care where we put the homeless.

We need to put them in a safe place. We need to surround them with social services when we put them in a home.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, the reason that local prosecutors send cases to the Attorney General's office is that they have now 800 lawyers employed instead of 400 when Bob first started his tenure in the Attorney General's office. He has the lawyers to prosecute these cases. That's one reason why they send them to your office.

Let's just talk about the economy. It's really, to me, it boils down to taxes. You know, what we're doing right now on this gas tax is it is a burden on each and every one of us living in Washington state.

We need to pause that gas tax. We need to step back and take a look at where we're headed. Everything that we buy today is a direct result of that gas tax.

Everything that's transported from your house, from the store, from the train station, from the warehouses, is transported by a truck that's paying high gas taxes. Those costs are passed on to you.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, as we know, special education has not been fully funded for years. I know there's been attempts to do that, and that is one of my number one priorities, is to make sure that special education gets fully funded. Look, we have money in the budget to spend on education.

It's not a spending problem. It's an organizational problem. It's a waste problem.

Let's find the programs that work, and let's fund those programs. Let's not fund the programs that are not working. It's as simple as that.

Our government, the Washington state government, has a $41.8 billion surplus right now. $2.8 billion of that money is unrestricted money that we could start to move to address some of the educational issues that we have in this state. What I would like to do is to start some Head Start programs that really focus on people who are interested in the medical field, in the mental health professional field, EMTs, paramedics, teachers, even law enforcement.

Start a Running Start program, for example, in our junior high schools, so that they can start to focus on those professions that they are interested in immediately, instead of waiting until college to pay those higher costs.

[Dave Reichert]
As I talk to teachers, they want choice, too. They're tired of being dictated by Olympia as to what they can teach and what they can't teach. Teachers want choice.

Parents want choice. They want to have a better education for their children. We need to give them the opportunity to choose the schools they want to go to and their tax dollars follow them to the schools that they choose to send their children to.

And by the way, one short, quick note. When Bob was a member of the King County Council, he voted to increase taxes at least $1 billion.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, he's right. As I said earlier, you do have a choice in who your leader is, and as I pointed out earlier in my opening comments, we've made some bad choices. This time we have an opportunity to make the right choice.

By the way, we don't need to tax people out of their jobs and out of their homes. What we need to do is shift taxes. Maybe we should think about shifting the license plates' tabs and the license taxes, auto taxes, maybe taxes on cars.

We can shift those over to the transportation budget and help pay for repairing our roads and fixing the ferry system and finishing the highway here in Spokane that we've been waiting for for years. You know, the Seattle Times has made a comment, just to get back to education quickly, that they actually support charter schools too. They see them as successful.

People have noticed that across the country, that charter schools do have a success. I think competition is good.

[Dave Reichert]
Yeah, I think as Washingtonians, we are all very keen on and astute to the issues of the environment. We all want to make sure that Washington stays clean, green, and pristine. That's what I worked hard to do in Congress.

I added 20,000 acres to Alpine Lakes Wilderness. I supported Wild Sky. I initiated the legislation that led to the mountains to sound Greenway.

Those were all things that I worked on in Congress to keep Washington green, clean, and pristine. I am a person who looks at all of the above energy. As we move forward, we need to move ourselves off of fossil fuel.

Yes, we do. But we've got to transition into that. We can't put a pre-designated date on when we're going to change things and then expect things just to work.

That's when things fall apart. We've got to have a plan. We've got to look into the future and figure out, you know what, we're going to go forward, but we've got to make sure that we don't hurt the people of Washington State along the way.

[Dave Reichert]
It's not just pay attention to jobs. It's not just pay attention to jobs. It's all about jobs.

It's about your security, job security, your family's security. And that's what we need to keep our focus on. Yes, the environment is a part of that.

But we've got to work smart when we do this. And look. Here's what I said.

You want to go and find out, really? You're going to hear lies all night. And you're going to see commercials over the next month.

Nothing but lies. And dishonesty. Go listen to the entire context of each and every one.

Each and every one of the videos and audios that he's referring to.

[Dave Reichert]
Once again, taken out of context, that was a multi-question. There were three or four questions that I was asked that night. And the unraveling comment was directed toward transgenders participating in women's sports.

It was also referencing the use of men in women's bathrooms. That's what the unraveling comment, Bob, was all about. We have had an abortion law here since 1970.

I will enforce that law as governor. I enforced it when I was a sheriff's deputy in the 70s. Kept abortion clinics open as people protested in federal way to close them down.

My job as a patrol cop was to keep the driveway and the sidewalk open. I will protect your rights, ladies. You have the right to make that choice.

The Supreme Court has made a decision. It's the people of Washington State that make those decisions for women and voters of Washington.

[Dave Reichert]
Man, he can lie with a straight face. I'm telling you right now, what he's telling you is an absolute falsehood. I voted not once to end abortion in the United States of America.

I voted on a viability law that allows women to have the choice up to 20 weeks. It's almost exactly the same law that exists in Washington state today. So don't believe him when he says this.

Don't believe the ads that you see. And is this race really about abortion? That is time, Mr. Riker

[Dave Reichert]
Well, first of all, I don't think you answered the question. I asked you, who's responsible? You've been there 12 years.

Are you responsible, Bob? Answer the question, please. Are you responsible?

If you're not responsible, who is? Who do we look to for leadership if no one takes responsibility? I took responsibility when I was the sheriff.

I had to make some tough decisions, life and death decisions, when I was a deputy, when I was the sheriff of King County. I made tough decisions. And when the people asked me about it, I answered the question.

Yes, I'm responsible. And you know, all he did was talk about his budget. How great he was at budgeting.

A $1 billion tax increase in eight years in King County by itself? That's crazy. And the state budget in 12 years has doubled.

[Dave Reichert]
Not only that, his budget has doubled.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, the first thing we have to do is stop playing gotcha. Inspectors come out, look at your businesses, gotcha. Then what happens?

The Attorney General's office comes after you. Nobody wants to do business in Washington State when they're afraid of getting sued and run out of business. Do you?

No. We've got to stop suing our businesses so they can stay in Washington State and be productive. No new taxes.

That's going to be the advantage. Sometimes we have to say no in government. It's been a rubber stamp.

It's been a rubber stamp for almost 40 years. It's time to have a conservative. It's time to have a Republican.

It's time to have a balanced government. No new taxes. We've got to go back to crime and homelessness.

Big problem. Forcing businesses out of our cities and out of our state. And they're overregulated.

Regulation after regulation and tax upon tax. Why wouldn't you move your business out of Washington State? I would.

[Dave Reichert]
Yeah, the first thing we have to do is bring people that are actually doing the work. People who are actually conducting business in Washington State. Bring them to the table.

Let's sit down and have a discussion as to what rules and regulations you think need to be taken off the table. I'm open. I'm not a part of the system that's been in existence for 40 years or the last 12 years.

I'm going to be a new face, a new person, a new idea that we can talk about, think about, and discuss together and move forward in reducing regulations, streamlining permits, those things that are really burdensome on businesses today. One complaint I have heard across this state, we don't have a place at the table. Businesses, plumbers, police officers, you name it, the profession, they do not have a place at the table.

Our government's not been listening.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, hey, if it's in this voters pamphlet, it's got to be true, right? I mean, I believe him. He still hasn't answered the question, who's responsible?

Look, he sued Value Village. It cost us millions of dollars and lost. He lost.

It cost us millions of dollars. He sued the chicken company, the tuna fish company, and he sent out $200 checks. Remember this?

The $200 checks went to deceased people. That's efficiency? And that's how you're going to fix the problem?

That's how you're going to reduce your budget? You know what we need to do? We need to make it easier for renters, for landlords, to evict people who aren't paying the rent.

We need to change the squatter laws. People need to, they can't, they shouldn't be allowed to move into someone's house and just squat there. We need to change those laws.

We need change and streamline the permitting system.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, I really am struggling with this, because I really think that we all need to treat each other with respect and dignity. And that should be taught in our schools, no matter what. Do we really need a curriculum to teach people how to relate to each other, be kind to each other, respect each other, no matter of color, race, creed, or religion?

I don't think we do in America. It's the land of the free, it's the home of the brave. It's the land of opportunity.

And we need to treat everyone with respect and give each other the same opportunities that we would expect for ourselves. So, no, I don't agree with DEI, but I do agree with treating people with respect and hiring the best people. That's what I did when I was the sheriff.

I had an all-female staff, chiefs and majors, and the commander of my internal investigation unit. Why? Not because of their color, not because of their sex, but because they were the most qualified people.

That's what America is about.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, no, I don't oppose it. That's another lie. I happen to believe that marriage is between a man and a woman.

That's my faith, but that doesn't mean I'm going to impose that on the people of Washington state. You have the right to choose who you love. You have that right, and I'm not going to stand in the way, I'm not going to impose my religion on you, but where was Bob, when we talk about DEI, when we talk about equality, where was Bob when the ugly head of antisemitism raised up on the university campuses here in Washington state?

Where was Bob? Where was Bob's voice? You didn't hear a peep out of Bob.

He talked about equality.

[Dave Reichert]
I agree with Bob on this issue. We do need to make sure that small businesses pay less and that families, hardworking families, middle income families pay less taxes. But then why would you support a gas tax of 50 cents a gallon that's so burdensome on those middle income families and those businesses?

Why would you support a piece of legislation that says that truck drivers are exempt, farmers are exempt, but yet there's no mechanism within the law that allows that to happen. Farmers and truck drivers have to pay that gas tax, which then raises the price of everything that you pay. What about the long-term care tax?

We should have a choice as to whether or not we want to participate in that. Applause That's That's The benefit there is minimal, to say the least. If you want to participate, do it.

[Dave Reichert]
Is that to me first? I'm sorry. As I've said before, I currently support the laws that are on the books in Washington State.

So, yes to your question. I would support the current laws today. I want to get on to child care real quick.

Here's what I would propose. Okay, you want to talk about access? I'm for access.

Absolutely for access to abortion. I'm absolutely in support of Governor Inslee's initiatives to supply abortions for people out of state. Does that answer your question?

Now on to child care. 60 days. We need to increase the family care.

That bonding period of time to 60 days. And we can do that within the existing budget. The other thing I would propose as far as taxes, let's not tax baby food.

Let's not tax diapers. Let's not tax baby essentials. I'm going to work with the House Democrats and the Senate Democrats to put together a bill that actually helps middle income families raise their children without paying taxes on baby essentials.

[Dave Reichert]
Well, this is an area where Bob and I agree. I don't have anything more to say. I agree with what he said.

I support the current laws in Washington State.

[Dave Reichert]
Okay, tonight Bob is asking you to believe that he will change the way he's done business for the last 12 years. That's not going to happen. We know that.

It's not going to change. He says he's the change agent. That's not going to happen.

I am asking you to believe that together we can make change in Washington State. A Democrat House, a Democrat Senate, working together with, yes, a Republican governor, balanced government, we can do this together. That's the change agent.

That's the change agent. A balanced government in Washington State? Mind-blowing.

Right? We can do this. And what we'll work toward is a government based on leadership, on integrity.

Imagine an honest government, a government based on servanthood, and on a team that's built on servanthood and integrity. I want to work with you to build that kind of government. We can lead the country.

We can show the country what it means for a divided state like Washington State to come together, to fix what's broken, change what's wrong, and do what's right.
