https://0youtu.be/nmF3SmCHKUo?si=240V3kLetJPGGUMm

Bob Ferguson gubernatorial candidate interview by 
The Seattle Times Jun 9, 2024

Thank you for turning general, for example, we're coming in to talk with us today. We always like to thank people for being willing Tehran in certainly for serving a, you've had a long history general's office and at the county, so thank you for all of that. We have a number of questions we'd like to talk about around, we'll just get right to you. 

Let me think it's one of the most important that is, education supplier. 

Thanks for being here. Yeah, we'll just punch right out. Do you feel that the speed is meeting its application on education funding. 

I mean, I think this might be the question. The questionnaire is, well, I came right now, but I would say, no, that wasn't particularly there. And all 3 land countries tactical sell across the state and your rain I've heard is individuals will March take 1° to focused on education issues, both Cape turf and highration. 

By the way, my workplace for the communicollege, he has thrown about her professional life and so no I mean. Obviously there was. The last hit the mccleay lawsuit. 

Obviously we have a job doing defending you have the state on that, but it was clear that the Supreme Court dispute strongly with the funding that the legislature had put in place over the years project. 

And then the legislation put tha $7 billion in, so where we are now 

No I don't know insufficience, I'm saying there is an investment, but since that time just finished that thought so, since that time, they absolutely met with the Supreme Court. wanted, but since that time, you'll, there's been a backsliding on the investment. For kids and the challenge is the needs as you are known if I get some these issues, the needs are only increasing when it comes to education. 

Special education is one example right? Is just one of many mother's a specialistoction teacher means a lot to me, the number of kids who had those needs in our school is only increasing. The funding is not competes with school construction. 

As the Republic Washington books, their one talk about the Capitol needs for their schools. We hear that I hearsay that you've written about this in jurisdictions all across our state. So what say is the needs are growing um, the funding has not kept peace. 

I'm just wondering why that is when I talk to u. Individuals educators across our state when I ask him, what do your top priorities threw the off hit its mental health in classroom mental health in mental health like that's a whole know the other issue that amateur from gets to bad and happy to hold after later on, but huge issue in terms of the needier? Of counsellors, all sorts of investments needed, because that child needs help. 

But also for that child in the classroom is having the impact on the learning experience for all the kids in their classroom, so on multiple levels. I think there needed to be a renewed focus on education. 

And traditionally, you know, the governor's office has not been terribly involved or invested in education, and I'm wondering if you think that there are ways to address that, how would you address that difficult? 

Ian, it's a few up's presenting the severe observation number 2, if I'm elected governor that will be a focus on mind when I don't as Attorney General is having ability to focus on many parts of our office. Okay, and they greater investments in work. We never did civil waiting forcement before as Attorney General we now at the best of exvision, the country full stop right? 

That's what I did, because I felt that was important for us in office. We need not to environment portion is now the silver criminal didn't exist. We do that does a fantastic work that type of thing. 

So what I would say is as a governor but I look at where however, this, like my turn general, I try to look what the office doing well fixed her sancies, we've always and will than a non horizony. I've always felt that words I hearted the office from Machina bells on well can only get the work we do on behalf of the people awfully underfunded, just to do good next shot. For decades, I'm vested in that right, may that work. 

So we're looking at the coming governor I've got to keep thinking, and we need to get a new job, right? What's working well, continue. It's working well, find what needs to be improved because every place you go to needs improvement. 

Invest there in education, I think is a key one where a governor obviously needs to use the boy public. That office number 1 number 2 obviously you're writing these budgets, right? You're proposing those budgets to the legislature and over 3, you've got an ability to work with the legislature to get your parties put in place like I detail this in the questionnaire, but And brothers during general link 50 bills that I propose as Attorney General in my 12 years have been signed in the wall. 

Almost all those in bipartisan. A few did not hike best magazines or solid weapons so ls were not by partisan. Most was something like 17 of them. 

The prime's answer was Republican, but I pointentionally start out a Republican with a prime Spartan bill, I do not have to do that for the Democrat control legislature. I'm trying to communicate to the legislature. Hey, I want to work in a bipartisan way I it's the best approach, so I think will take all those qualities to make their work when comes education, because you write may have a separate, a separately elected superintendent. 

The governor's role is important but It's description, but 

Government could have increased accountability for education if, for instance, Asp I superintendent were part of the cabinet, not the governor's cabinet and Christine flated, that proposal supported that even chraptal has at times supported that idea. So I'm wondering where you come down on that. 

I support making that a export having that not be elected office to make that. So people machine ticket part cabinet. For example, which, of course, many states do I think that wasn't the questionnaires as well, if I remember correctly, so hopefully, I was clear on that, but I support that too exactly your point, but it's If governments have a lot of power, right? 

But your education is a really good example, where um, the influence education is dispersed and having a separately elected superintendent, there are challenges there are addressing education needs when that's the case. And so I support them. 

Um, switching a little bit toured on higher education as just referee, as you surely know, while we have a very high per capita rate of college degrees and advanced degrees in this state, they are mostly not going to a local kids. Washington as a very little college-going read, compared to the national average of local students going. Under higher education, and I'm wondering if you how you see the governor's office Wang. 

And on that or affecting, that passively 

Sure. Um, just a few thoughts, um, number one, your conversations I've had with the business community. For example, this comes up, right when we want more kids coming into our ecologist and getting into our workforce. 

So this is the type of issue that I'm tanning, convince that 90% solving any political problem. My experience is getting everything in the room to greet, there's political problem needs to be solved, or I really action, should believe that, and this good example, where Adding books breeders a prompt, the need to be addressed. And it's by powers, right? 

The bins community want then, once the Democrats want that Republicans want that there's opportunities here, I need to make a difference as an example of where I think a governor can make immediate difference, it's for a lot of kids such that kept on high school students, young people. College can feel outreach for a lot of reasons, funny, great washing has great put in place the legs. They process incredible opportunities for assisting kids of all economic backgrounds to attend college, but we do a lousy job and that has been generous right on communiform. 

I think wrote about this, I think relatively recently I recall correctly I've had meeting with folks to work in education. Or we were kicking at the bottom of getting kids felt these forum's, I know the exact member. But I know no way very, very shark me. 

Well, look, there are many challenges I'm sure we'll get them homelessness and mental health issues that are like interact, really challenging to make progress on right, really challenging. I'm sorry communicating to high school students that there is a 4 that they fill out brings open a world of opportunity financially for them and opens up. Those doors is a game changer and it is quantifiable like there are high school students, you know, where they are every day break from 8:00 to 3:00. 

Break, you know, where their families are, we have resources to communicate to them? And I'm sorry, you know, this is one where, Ah, there is a lot more of this state can and must do, because that is a huge barrier or a perceived area for many students, so as a key example as partly using Olympic. But that's also, Hey, legislatures across the state would brace set To get those in the mail boxes, 2 students to hike as a government. 

All shop at high schools and talk about this, right? We'll put folks in schools to communicate directly to young people that this is possibly for them so that's a challenge that books recognise new. To address. 

Volation, teacher took the credit Has tradebarrier on that? But now we need fall around that to make sure we're gaining that defolks to young people and their families, they understand that is possible for them. 

And the vice one from me for now, is regarding tourist schools. You have come out in support of the state law that opened us to charter schools and I'm wondering um how you feel about charters having access to Levy funds the same way the traditional public schools. 

I have to I don't think I've been. It's reported that I don't think about it. 

I said I believe that when the state Supreme Court was closing, the window was saying that there shouldn't be as many charter schools as the original law allowed, which was 40, and I believe you've said this is a voter initiative and 

Also a 100 or sorry, so to be clear my job as a train general. So sorry, if I 100%, when the voters, in fact, I think in it. This was a while the right that this was before the Supreme Court, yeah, and so my memory's correct on this, but that is absolutely right, that that initiative, our job, of course, is spend the initiative in court after in general, we acted that went up to the state report, as you know, of course, we defended that and down. 

And so that's Keep part of our job right absolutely. 

So now understanding that I mean that was your job, but I'm interested in your thinking regarding charter schools access to funding, because they don't have the same access, the traditional public school do in terms of Levy. 

Yeah, I guess I have to look, but that's not. And I mean stopping a focus from may have not been historically a fan of charter schools to be clear. And so I guess I want to be sure suffering the job right defending that initiative right versus a personal view so yeah, yeah. 

And with that extent of our tours, then can I make that assumption that you're happy in favour? 

That's great. 

That's it for me. 

Hello, judge. 

Like to talk a little bit about the climate commitment act, surf course is gonna go before voters language this fall. I'm curious you mentioned to us about working families. Tax credit as a way of maybe lessening a bit of the financial PAN while still fighting climate change, and I'm wondering if you can firm up that proposal, how what residents in the state would receive tax credits, how much and then further just what you think needs, if at all any fixing of the climate commitment act itself? 

Yeah, a couple dots on that too, so no one I opposed the rest thing about. I pose the initiation by try support the climate. I've been clear, which, by the Weiser contrast in this race. 

Great to come out. 

The backer opposite I might also add, by the way, that he's welcome back to your question. But trying to make this point, it is clear that he does not think humans contribute to climate change, and Africa is exampled about or investments. Don't make a difference, okay in a dress now, which I just think is, you know, from where she needs to go. 

And what are signing needs to go is deeply concerning to put mildly high export climate may act by the clear. That there are some fixes right? Some tweaks choose, where do you want to use to improve on it? 

And I think the legislature is trying to address that something in a particular, but for example, the exemption right for the output, now 0 deasa, meaning with farmers. This was a big deal that was being with democratic farmers to be clear like Bob. What the heck, what the heck is going on here right there, there's exemption, we're not getting it. 

Here's the impact on Austin in our work here, so We need to honour that legislatures taking steps to do that, for example. And NI think in terms of a work in South California and Brice, Colombia, right? With the option, I think, is a step forward as well, I all those things are back my apologiz. 

That is an improvement thoor I think you mentioned the work of ballings, tax credit and yes, the climate may act, of course, says many important things with the resources that come in, which are very significant one. Them is Funding for that working families, tax credit, which can as you know, your question as gas prices are too high. Also to make you're constantly all around the state, right? 

When I travel is that is way to offset that impact with focus. Most players Everly impacted by those gas prices. So I think your version will take that cool. 

Exactly would qualify think I don't have that level detail, I think in my playing, who exactly where you've drawn the line, but what I would say is For someone like a perhaps, a Dave writer who opposed that, Hey, what about these books and what about this tax credit, which this act funds and helps folks who utilise those resources to help offset the costs that they're experiencing? 

This will governmently shows energy as way a mechanism for Rebate. I just was curious about tax credit in howeight of a population. How many washitonnes do you think would be included. 

I guess I've worked at that level of detail, obviously, when we working to the legislature on that, but well, I would say is expand it's helping up thousands thousands of washeon's right now in a significant amount, but that can be expanded and should be expanded so when I look at what I would do differently with the climate right to make sure those exemptions, actually, that is what by taking that tax credit and making sure we're investing even more in helping boats, because the pain that folks are feeling at the gas price is a key example, it is But I think folks want to be able to move forward on addressing climate in our state and have essential, that is, for forestate, for a workforce or people for health, but in a way that does not average the impact people in their pocket books. 

All right, and that's when strength of the climate is that tax. Credit. We need to expand the exact primers that, you know, I can give. 

That's more target that, but we haven't dug that deep into. We worked the legislator to panaa a wait for the makes next season. 

And if an initiative like this passes, it also essentially makes impossible least under the initiative process on a carbon tax, a capturing system. I mean, is, are you willing to challenge a constitutionality of of a difficult or pest? 

And my won't challenge the concentrationality of the initiative itself. If it were to pass well, I guess a couple of things number one I feel confident it will not perhaps the initiative for its worth, but your own books of my campaign and all that right now in terms of a worst case nerve. It's like I want to be clear these or preliminary thoughts on Hey, if it Give the initive passes, what the implications are I dress up? 

I would challenge the cards from Shelly about. I guess what it see is, you know, the um is part of this part of the secon, but this will undoubtedly be a lassite challenge in that that's why can come from the governor's office right? That there would be folks out there, who would be challenging the Constitution of that app just because of the state or the Attorney General where that this would be defending. 

The initiative, a choice to the voters, whether they agree with it or not, he was government try to have thoughts about their right. But one be mindful. My role, that at that stage, l took you, I suspect been very focused on what do we do next on climate in light of the climate communict going down right to your appointment. 

Great, there's always much time in the day. The re litigation I have no doubt. the court will work do that. 

They'll be litigated, I suspect in this is climate thoughts are really not get much thought too if it fail. Sorry, if it passes my polities, if it passes, but I suspect it will be dealing with a significant impact or budget at that point and I'd be coming as a governor with a session already underway and a budget proposed by governmently And working with hay to deal with this whole budget that that the voters have put in place. And so I suspect that would be my focus only as posed to litigation, you know, I'm leaving my litigating days behind me. 

I hope I'm hoping together. 

And I will follow-up on to that. So, um, there is a lot of criticism of the instigation are not being strict enough about allowing speculation within the carbon market. So that's why crisis went up so high, what would be your view about watching closely house speculators affected 

Generatives dream, a cornerstone I think I mention before us. Yes, of course, we have to address climate as a state but cannot be at the cost significant impacts on washingtones in their clock book, especially, women watch doctors, right, that's just for me. That's not up. 

That's not, that's a false choice, it can't be that way and so. Look, whether it's that issue or others, look at the climate command hopeful gets through this initiative, but that will be an ongoing conversation right, right? In terms of what we can do to minimise those impacts, but I'm an itch that would be engaged on that, and were the folks who are smart on these issues. 

Figure out what steps we can take. So farkly, that's the approach I'd be taking is making sure we're trying to help out wash into impact of the gasp here. 

Moving on to the Washington State ferry system, I'm curious, a government's land legislature have authorised up T $1.3 billion to build 5 hybrid areas. So the issue is, of course, they're not going to be here to 2028 griped or beyond. I'm curious at that time 20:28, the 2030 somewhere in that neighbourhood, had already depleted Fleet will likely be losing more vessels, so just functionally, we will be up absolutely. 

They won't be able to run anymore, so essentially we're going to be treading water at the inadequate service to spor. The dolls of today are how ambitious is your plan and are you willing to spend the billions of dollars that it will take under the Washington State's vary's long-term plan to get 16 more vessels built by 2040. 

So yesterday to that, think that's second question I heard about on the investment time just back up just for a second, so obviously we put a plan out there. Um, went for this campaign to publicly put out a plan by the way to be clear about that, you know, when I was her first thing about running. For governor from time ago, and if you'd asked me if my one, my first 2 plans, I'd roll out would be that ferried, I might not have said the answers yesterday, right? 

But in trounned, the state. As I think this editor's report understands you go to any island community, you attack, anyone asylum communities? Do not get them started on the ferry service. 

Okay, that won't be clear I talk about the ferry service everywhere. I go okay, just had a fun reason on Capitol hill. I'm talking about the ferry service, okay, just a few days ago I don't just save for the island communities. 

I taught this as an example as an example of I think the state is failing the resident of the state they've got more thoughts about that about as a state, how we should be centring the people on the work. We do and culture. State bureaucracy and money to change, but I use us as an example of that because folks on island communities, I think what I think I know what I care for them. 

It's not just that just the significant frustration of inadequate service, right for whether they're a business, whether individual trying to get to a Dodge. Employment, whether high school soon, who can't get back from their high school on a ferry and they spend the night on the island where the high schools okay, that level of impact and what I think they find, especially mading what I hear is. They understand time. 

Got a lot of money to address us. They get this prompts outsolve tomorrow they do, but I think what they find, especially frustrating is the Brown seems get worse year after you're okay, and honestly they feel this state is not listening, okay? And so I can put this in the answers of questionnaires, but If I made it clear if I'm elected during that transition, I'm going island communities with my team, right to go, engage with folks on those Islands and talk about lesson them talking about how we move the state forward. 

I've talked about making editors in the cabinet, right of my administration. Some hearing directly from that person and just importantly, that person zone room, I won't know the update. Okay, that's I handle my life now as a train general on, look at 20000 leashes. 

Gone on any moment a time. Only handple I can really be right on top of every single day. Obviously, well, I make sure that one of the folks I knew every single day is overseeing the most important cases, so the report directly to me about that. 

I think we'll take that level of engagement as what the money is gonna happen. The investment's going to happen. All that's got to be there so I don't see more important that that's not fair, but It is also important that the governor is particling. 

This is a crisis, and this is an everyday conversation and the whole team understands that. And so, you know, that's the approach I'm going to take, and I do believe the state can make much more stick into the progress in I'm going too long. This might get all questions, but would you say look, we went on the window on my 5, right? 

When the terrible collapse happen on the bridge, open sketch counting weeks it was before the state got their place. It was unbelievable about how fast it was unbelievable. What every move to have on earth to make it happen, I'm not saying you can do that with theories in 6 or 8 weeks, I must suggest that, but that same mentality is what needs happens just like books using I 5 right new, that as a lifeline for all sorts of reasons, right? 

Guesswort ferries are that same lifeline for a lot of washing tones, and it needs that same sense of person. 

Do you see any ways of ameliating the problem before 2028 or before the next vessel? 

Absolutely think I detail out how long were too much, but it's, yes, she'll take part of challenges of staffing issues for example, right, Dr. Island community members who shop and there's a fairer there, but no staffing for that ferry. Okay, what's more frustrating than that right again there are some challenges there. 

There's some rules and regulations. You get a worked around the staffing site to cut through some democracy, but that is an example that can happen, use the passenger ferries, right? I detailed that as well. 

That spent time we can a council, dumb bowl and ferry service there, after my dad, I wouldn't, I ran for kick in accounts, but I got very important bomb. Those issues supporting passengers safe, a passenger service, a passenger service here in King County. And that isn't the island communities want to see as well more options get some boats out there, they realised I couldn't solve the prom, but get them some more options out there. 

So, yes. 

Um, I want to talk just briefly about cults. 

COVID over children and fish fish blockages are around the state or yet. 

Of course, and as Attorney General of course, you a case that went all the way to the US Supreme Court, you part of your argument, I know was that the idea that upstream downstream blockages, even if the state clears one blockage, we're still, we still have a problem. So we also know in front of us $4 billion or so of work out of an framing up a fraction of the habitat that was done with earlier work, so is there anyway, to fix what is a federal injunction? And it up to even going back to federal court, potentially to ask, how can you How can we ensure we're spending salmon recovery dollars in the best possible way that we can in terms of unblocking cults? 

Right. Um, feel, I'll try to disrupt the shorter but a big topic that I obviously fairly familiar with. Um, you're right, that a, you know, upset than have to appeal that case case, I heard it obviously written and appealed it and all went to the night sage in court, not without a fair amount. 

Controversy. Obviously with a lot of my political supporters tribes in particular, um. But a key reason why I did file that appeal after the uspincord was to this point, write that, and we made this clear briefing that the impact on taxpayers would be profound for a very minimal p for certain part of COVID, right? 

And that's which are hate brothers a, we can fix this part. To the extreme. Somebody else controls at some pyland for example, and that do not make sense to me as an Attorney General that the taxpayer is beyond the, which is a key reason why we, there were many reason, but that was a key reason line we particulated that as well. 

But the court rule was corporate right and we'd better respect that, and we've got You know, a just like the mclear cause, right? We've got a court order saying, Hey, state, you gotta do exinvestment, billions by next year. You know, it's All I can say is that we might take corridors seriously, right? 

Of course, the state can go back the lexico, saying, let's go back and ask the court they can do that and the I'm not optimistic. A court is going to in other words apart if longer, we want for me that inflation was before the court, when the court issued their decision just to be clear, right? This is new information, right? 

Like this was we articulated, we know it was in court saying, my sister general, this was A Forest an argument, a court. This that makes sense because of this reason over here, so I don't know that a court is going to view things as being finally different than when the court issued the original order. 

Movie-going forward. What about salmon recovery? We're about making sure that we are spending these dollars the best way we can so anything we can change 

Well, it's challenging because it's a court order. I'm just being honest, right? Its quarters or orders you have take so seriously that they can sanction you, they can issue more financial penlleyes on the state oneval's orders, right? 

And so if obviously, any the next governor right? And next legislatures can be engaging with. Tribes with stakeholders with other local governments that have covered, you get the idea about this, but I just think it's important to keep my word. 

We're at this quarter rows there and so again directly when go back to the court, but typically when you go back to the court, you're saying something new. Has happened here? Judge, you just couldn't foreseen this happening, right? 

And I'm saying, I'm not saying no, that one would be clear out ruling that out. Alm., but you know, I'm not a big believer in spending any way that does make sense, and this is a lot of money that, you know, for a very, very limited payoff, obviously, would be having conversations for all the real and stakeholders that are involved in that, but you'll need support. All stakeholders, make that happen. 

Okay, to say people really change fundamentally on this final portion of courts at this amount of cost to change how we're doing that. I'm hoping that conversation won't be clear about that. I want app with them mapping too loyally in this right, but there is this is out there that is a huge huge challenge to cheered by radio or globally sale times with great interests. 

You might imagine, and You know, I don't think pleasure, we're right on that part of corports, you know, but but it's true. Thank 

Unlocks. 

Um, couple questions over abover, healthy and all the just now. So I'm from here hospital. Last year, company voters approve the crisis care Tennis Levi circus is opening in 5 short state facilities and at the time, even supporters said, if that is all we do, all we focus on is on the crisis emergent care, we would have failed. 

And so we start looking at Western State in the state hospital system must received over federal certification in 2018 los $53 million annual funding, as seems to be a work in progress on Western State, but I wanted to hear your vision for both Western State and this particular protected. A population that is theme is like the most challenging and probably in need of not just crisis carers, but permanent places to live in services. 

Yeah, um couple, that's on a big subject, so number one, what I would say is that I've recognised this challenge as Attorney General and no policymaker, right? I don't, I don't do the budget, but we've taken in my office a very aggressive approach on this issue, in terms of taken on the largest corporations in the world that we think fuel the opioc, uh, in a way the valley, the Loar um washing safe. I believe, has recovered for more dollars per capita. 

In other states or any other state, I think, in partics, I rejected national settlements that virtually all my colleagues agreed to Democrats and some Republicans and went on our own way with her own litigation and recovered more as a result of going on way in those settlement agreements we've recovered. I thin $1.3 billion spread over years or relies, but we prepared for 1.3 billion In those cell side, it's something biarian, which is I limited how the legislature or local governments can use that money. 

I put in those film agreements. They can only use to address the opal epidemic, so to your question, right? One point, they're going to a lot of money, but obviously we need more than terms investments, but we gave them. 

Parameters treatment to be first responders to get the idea, but the states for this epidemic in the impact on individuals' breaking their lives is profound, which is why I took such an aggressive approach on those cases rejected national settlements and limited. How that money can be used, so can't used for some of their good purpose, a new state park or something nope. They can't do that. 

It can only be used dressopend a couple specific thoughts on which you had to say so, the greater investments will be critical right number 2 with Western state Evans said it's public and I think, but I guess like to see this. Day now is your Western state. It's failing right? 

As an example, took at very service earlier, right, but Western states, another example of institutions to put a mild leak is not meaning its obligation to the people and I've excick around the idea from governor bisco look out of Western state for a week. I'm quite serious like I'm seen a go get an Arthur's there. Put me in office a Psy and I'm gonna hang around for a weekend and figure. 

What's going on, okay. I think it requires that level of What the ec's gone on, I'm gonna physically go there and hang out there for a week, so I guess I get even a dance on that idea. I've been kick around for a while, but I think like that level of engagement from the governor because of all the issues you were mention with. 

Western state, which are profound and unacceptable as a state, so we'll take a focus from the Government of working obvious of their stakeholders and legislature and others as well to address that. 

Help. 

It'll leash the last thing I'll see about with the funnel epidemic and the challenges. Look, I know that a lot of folks who have lost their kids. For example, the epidemic, one mother gave me the funeral program person, it's on my desco book, always been there. 

Okay, I'm gotta mum governor I'm taken it with me, it's going to be on my desk, so this the front line issue for me. I care very deeply about this, and we even have to make these additional investments on all paid the treatment. The cat programs can counties, offering getting West from state turned around. 

In terms of Western Australians are one thing that you'd say, that would be my primary first thing I would do. 

Actually, I know, I don't think I mean, we'll be rolling out planning me opsin coming months. We plans were rolling out when I want to get out a serve ahead of it will meet with a lot of folks on all these issues and one. Make sure you've been thoughtful about that, but I think we know during to see what their plan is. 

I will physically be there like I'm just gonna get in the office for a week and hang out their Western State, so I'm personal engage and to communicate to the team that I'm personally invested that, and I've learned. My time in general, the best way to get cultural change in the office, which we don't significantly in the office, is to get personally involved in issues relationship. But deeply engaged on aspect of cases and reading the briefs, that's what's gonna take with question. 

For changing or lowering the threshold for supplement. 

I'm open that conversation. Yeah, open a look, now. You're really interest rate, the legal side and all that race, I want to be really careful here, but yes, I'm absolutely opened that conversationship. 

Yes, I want to be careful rampet also to obvious reasons, but yes, I'm open that conversation. 

On homeless, you've been various studies, I've seen in mate. I too, they'd say that a disproportionate amount of currently experiencing homelessness, exit wo state systems, the prison system and a foster care system given those both be under the purview of the beginne next governor what would you do to address homelessness. By looking at those 2 pipelines into homelessness, the prison people exiting the prison system in the basketograph. 

Yeah, um, I could see a few things on there, so I think prison's an example, so some background that I'm kicking at a council rate, we're involved on people with our jails and and who's there and what happens when folks exit and where they end up got their involved on? The veterans image services Levy, which I believe when I proposed this editor, with Julie parrison said to report support, I think as many years since a component that was actually 8 veterans. Are there who have been homeless in keeping exiting from the system and making sure they're getting assistant while they're actually in jail, right to help them as they come out job training, whatever might be right? 

Education, additional tools help them as they come out. And so I think that the can be investments, the state makes in both those areas To try to cut off that pipeline, that's leaned homelessness from folks who are going through those systems. I think I dress my discus. 

These are so 2 systems don't get that they get attention, but not in this way so much, right and so um, in dealing with homises, which, if I had to Rex written some of the most intractable challenges we face to state. This would certainly be very high on the list, if not the very, very top, because it's in the intersection, as, you know, of so many complex issues, mental health, depency, housing prices unimay all coming together, but your point. You know, there are some root issues there that we can make some investments to make a difference and those or to them. 

Also think there has been some promise. I think you guys that covered this as well, for example, young people write investments with the young people, right? That can help avoid the larger number of folks become homeless down the way down the road. 

Will those running a faster system or in a criminal jet system, so. Yes, I think those are 2 systems that will need attention from the next governing. 

It was housing in footyhousing, or the last couple of years, the government relationshi $2.4 billion to have a wide range breach system and addressing the housing shortage, osving his poll, that said, 65% of respondents didn't believe that any of this investments will result at actually decreasing in the price of healthcare, why do you tell what the tones that are spending so much on housing housing related issues that they're getting a bank for their bot, seen some improvements in the marketplaceon 

I was to remember the number I did read that our, I was surprised by the beginning my disrepeating the number of performing at the number of the bones yet action, I was a little surprised by that number. To be honest, Ah, but I think what gois the question for makes your answer question. 

Saying that they've put him back 

Really answers. 

Comes of money for Range of issues, a lot of 

Affordable, absolutely act. 

And people are saying, well, I don't believe that these investments are gonna actually lead to affordal housing, yeah. 

Australians. Thanks for the things about the second time. I guess a couple, that's say, number one is, I think that I think it's just like this is just my observation, take it from its worry by since you're asking, righti think it's, I've mentioned on my campaign. 

Here's weapon all throughout counties to issue a demost, like literally the most on the campaign trail. It is affordability generally affordable housing specifically and often community set. It was a surprised me. 

It's a little bit surprised in serene communities like I live in our Seattle, it's pretty obvious, but there's certain things as I'm ohl, that's interesting. That is a big so this, and there's a depth of frustration with hay, you know, or my kid will live in the community. I grew up, sort of thing, right. 

Um, and so I think part of it this just my dress like it's just a sense that's been going on for so long that it just feels like it's a one way streak in the wrong direction, getting further away from affordability, right and not seeing a mobile and so I think that that's my sense of why do I was fried that Emma? But I think that's what tolster or feeling in terms of how to reassure them up. Honestly, I think it's its actions more than works. 

You've got Olympic obvious articulate, what the states doing to try and meet this this challenge. But I think from my perspective is in game those million new units of housing housing, all levels, right, by the way, that we need in the next 15 to 20 years. If we actually do that great studies show when you make those investments, you will have an impact on price, right by demand you will have that impact. 

So I think it's a show me rather than tell me kind of thing I think from washing tonnes, that that's a sense I get. I'm not saying it's going. We should be trying to reassure people were taking steps. 

We think things would get better but because the crisis has become so pronounced for so many washing tones, I think it's gonna be a shomi sort of thing. I hope to the governor's credit in his seat, the state address 2 years ago I think it was, I mean, this was the centrepiece of this stay the status right man. He is trying to particate. 

This is something more moving forward on I think he talked by his last day, the state as well. It's just one more thing I'll say is AI do also think that this is an issue rising a lot of promise for making progress. Democrats, Republicans feel deeply about this. 

You're involving, all sorts stakeholders, labour care, cares a great deal about this. That's jobs, right? It is great for business for workforce, right? 

So those for delivered in working in different communities, so I see a lop opportunity here to actually work Cross how to connect these investments? And I think if we do that, it may take a bit of time, but I think when folks see more supply coming on the market that we'll have in it back and I think sourcecia. 

The little type thing that you would change the standst core is putting these investments and usually a waiting till they come to fruition, or is there anything you want to change within that mix of invest? 

Ali've been clear, I'm pointing this in the same categories like ferry service, where I'm taking housing out of Department of Commerce and put in the cabinet. but in the cabinet. Okay, so I'm hearing directly from that, that's far the plan that we've ruled out on this. 

Right, that needs to be at that level, because the crisis is so profound and it's one of those issues I'm identifying as I want that every day conversation with my team about that. What are we doing our meanour again, those already in those houses? Those homes or begin that dealt is that housing being actually constructed, so I think the state has put forward what the need is million new unions in 15 years. 

That's pretty big, right? That's that's fairly ambitious, so yes, I think that the course is chartered, but execution is what next is what next and I think we'll need a government was able to execute on this, and that's why we focused on 

Oh my last spot, one of your clients, but ask another year that as a Canada, with even issue Washington and the protest receiving our camps there. Some say their cabinets are example, have protected free speech and another say that it's clearly posted no camping and that state law it shouldn't wasn't enforced. And that's the problem, where do you see this? 

I'm concerned about or in just the recent vandalism, right and vandalism, somebody school at the hub, For example, or overnight, there are significant vandals in there, concerned about get the impact on public surf from baseline, our students. I want to never swwatch all stringe, global access surpluses and the campus and the More freely about the campus by any fear of affrtments, threats took that base line and n, your point is building, of course or free speech rights, of course, right? But there are a limits of free speech height, their limits to all our constitutional rights, you pick it right or a limit to that and so that right camping, ringing on music soon? 

2 Move around campus and so, but for my standpoint, that's the baseline. That's what needs to be enforced and n. And you know, I think if I'm a governor what I'd be doing is I don't know the government has his own conversations, I'm not saying this is not happening on to be very clear, say if I was a governor obviously having conversations with President healthy and the border regions and folks there in making sure that they are saying we're able to be of assistance in whatever way is appropriate, but that's the baseline and I think that's the direction. 

Be moving was going 

I don't. This line would be the enforcement of that. No camping law is that we're seeing the world. 

How to decise agus is what's going on the ground with those cammeads? Is that interfering, right? With students, a team of plastis and cryptocurance and camouts contribute to the animal that's going on, right? 

That is an escalation would happen. Last 2 nights, go I think about my matrights, right? 2 nights ago, that's an escalation, what's going on there clearly, right? 

And what happened to help is totally unacceptable, so that's the first That's the balance, right? As you've got, if you want to campus, protest has been gone for a long time. You want our respect to institute all the right to our take those things, but when you move to vandalism, when you move to threats to students unacceptable, right. 

So it's uneasy balance, its wife. Universities are wrapped up on this whole cross-country, but that's the baseline that I'd offered from? 

But we were also to give instruction. I think about a couple answers. 

Yeah, um, Twitter. 

Just or just one that secure, if you were governor you would not have picked app the phone and I take my partner is your campus from my point of view, is she got a whack posted there that says no camping on campus doesn't say any exceptions and say whether you agree with the issue or it's profound or troubling or this, there's no camping here. Would you say, Hey? Usually you would force that back, it's, it's a bit working to law or would you just said yeah, you know, let's see how to place out, maybe maybe it'll be used. 

I'm not sure it's an either or necessarily, right? What I would say. I'd be having a conversation with the university President any regions, right, and going to campus myself, right to see what's going on dancing now, present calcy, and walking through what we think makes the most sense, right? 

Um, horrible, the protest peaceful, has it turned in violence once things went with the hub. That's a problem that's a right place for me, right? The other night, the Banne's non totally acceptable and you also put into context that you're singing with other camps as well, where things have become really problematic. 

Great at Columbia and other locations as well for Jewish student. So don't look at a pre age theft, right? Um, but that's the baseline navy story is certainly once you're impacting the student experience on campus once you're gaining to vandalism, right. 

Um, I think you've crossed her. You've crossed a threshold, and more significant action needs to be taken. 

So I was hoping you could expand a little bit and one of the answers to the questionnaire on drop criminalization. A few years, all you were supportive about it. UN describe that you should be used, do not have that same now, really talk about your journey and also, what is the best way for societies to address the issue of public use and possession? 

Yes, I score the legislature's action, so you're so go right when for that bank, legislator set a key reason to be able to support that uncriminalizing side was because it is the public health issue and there was funding there for treatment in large part because my team has recover more than a billion dollars or that treatment by tells as a key component and getting some key boats folks who won the chatbroad. Excited about the idea of the crossing side so me at the dress table. When my thought battered on my journey, I think was a part of it was part of the question, I guess what I would say is that on M in this goods by anything to the earlier 2 questions on on the fennal epidemic and all boot epidemic is Specially challenging issue. 

You know, I'd seen what organ a done and the both being taken by a significant majority and under, you know, for those who are engaging in personal use. Hey, I want to see what we could explore right to improve. Thanks here in Washington, state, I think it's pretty clear what happened. 

Organ did not work out. It's pretty clear that the epidemic is only done much worse. I've always felt that those who are dealers, for example, need to prosecute. 

That's not OK to have public use of drugs. 

On m. 

But cooperations who are engaging actions that are fuelling the epidemic need to be held accountable. None that has changed on m. But yet, so when the late stage was grappling with after this stage tricking court decision, that's why sport of the move a that they took and felt important at those, I'm glad that the funds we brought available to the state for treatment. 

Help so much savers get to a place to actually support them. 

A few weeks ago there are a week where of 3 children babies were had overdosed on fennel, and one of them actually died. The legislature of the senate pass a bill, the house, the united. However, a voting committee that would have it added venom to the list of drugs that could be considered when we could take a child out of a home, so like if the parents are users of fenell, that might be a reason why you might remove a baby from that, because it's, you don't need that much to be exposed and obviously that it's very deadly, it's 2 little ones how do you feel about that? 

But would you push for it to me? 

I don't make sense and we're and you'll p****' later on time. I'll go too much detail but the biggest part of our apt, the work we do in office is the largest percentage of our lawyers do work when kids are in a home situation sometimes happily removed from home right? We, it's, you know, maybe her lawyers, but, well, over 100. 

That's all they do. Every single day, right? Why we have 13 office around the states? 

So we see seats or hit that believe me, right? We've done. I've asked my legal team to tell me how much has the opioc abuseful oids. 

Impacted why a child needs to be removed from a home. For example, sterday, which had the exact with me, but it's very high so we see that impact in our office because we're doing that work every single day in courts all across your state so yeah, I'd you opened up. View. 

I don't know if I seemed the exact bill about what I would look at it, but the way you're describing me to me makes sense. 

Can I could I jump in there on followers? Cy YF has been very strong in kind of the opposite direction, in allowing more and more kids to stay in homes where parents are drug users so are you suggesting that you would own? I don't know, is governor pushed them to amend that position that they've been quite, you know, determined in lessening the number of children. 

Brought into faster care, and that's where it's happening. 

Website, I can pose a specific bill as I understand it. What I'd say generally is non easy issue, because the court, this is a tough balance, right by me. This your child. 

okay. And bows in the race of the parent with all the challenges they're having, okay, which are significant and balancing that with the child on the impact on child, those or profound conversations take place in port free, and so make those judgments are need not easy, but I'm saying that. As an example, we see what the open epidemics done to families, we've seen that our lawyer system every literally every day in courts across the state. 

So I'd have a pretty hard line on the issue that keeps raising sort more philosophly, you'll have take a look and see. Exactly what are they saying, where they ask our lawyers are staying in court right earthere's, some disagreements I have with them, but those are challenging balance right between the rights of parent and And get. 

Frank. 

Thank, it's a question from about wherever. 

On the pretty manager and do a cover question out if you've by large foster disaster in this state, the human fix that were approved at least 

Well, I think one thing, Frank types, so spoken about it actually too little bit earlier. It is, I do believe that the state Garrett need a reboot, okay, on male. We talked by the few of those issues now, right? 

But there are certain institutions or things the state does care ferries, et or I feel we are not mean the needs of washing tones, so I do not pretend to be an expert on foster care, okay, or any number of these issues, right? But what I can say is that philically right as a governor I will try to write down as in general. The office in general, culture has changed dramatically. 

but patience. I came in there now to take a minute on this let's OK is to be clear ranking Attorney General our mission statement taught by serving our state clients very important. Critical essential, it was silent about serving people. 

It can buy that from people. So I said, well, Hey, we serve the people as well, maybe we should put that into our emission state, so we have that admission's statement. I may, for no civil rights work, no environment forcement, no resources to take on a truck administration had that been in place when I was a train general, there is 0 capacity for that type of work, consumer protection. 

We had one protection trial in the 17 years of April train channel, our team was so small, we can take anyone to court, even we want to let alone when the largest corporations that we're engaging in. And actions that are fellow put academic. So that's changed, right? 

So I think as a governor it's that same mind's saying we have a system that's broke great, I'll think it's overstating when comes to past, you care right or crisis or has promote to choose your description. But like Western state like the ferries, I think those are the kinds of issues that need a personal engagement from the governor and I think you want someone in there, who throughout their public life has been interested in change, okay. And you know, a, I'm April having endorsement flight. 

I recognise in my 3 competitive races and running for April assembl for 3 on doortions from the editorial boards. Not a mindful debt. So I'm not, you know, that's hold my breath, but I just want to be clear. 

Whatever folks think of my time in public life, it's been one track, okay, not accepting call and embracing change even means taken on my own party over and overget by a very first campaign to reducing the council from 13 to 9 to take on lawsuits against the adamstration and the bian administration. You name it, okay, and so Look for it, tribes and me, okay, it's put it very mildly, right, very mildly. They have relationship tribes, value, tribes and way to be hard to express. 

Those were not pleasant conversations coming personally or politically, I can assure you, I do I thought was the right thing you call the term about the writing or not, but I do like thought was the right thing and so I'm kind of going up feel a little bit Frank, my holies, but I guess I don't want to leave this interview. I know we're wine their time. About emphasising, I think that's part of my record and n, and that is something I'm certainly just understandable school guy, I never had been, but to memory, rely likes everything I'm trying to change. 

But that's the you will not have a stands school governor when I'm elected. I can't get like the best. Here I'll definitely give you a Clive tournary. 

David of that, we have a team. 

Intervention. 

Hello, sorbot, the ecological system of upcoming to 

The um fusion seems to be a point of pride that you take money from unions, but not businesses. Can you talk about that? Why would you take money from business. 

I do take money for this smaller businesses, right? I think I cut off this 50 employees but the reason why I stop taking so declare I do, but the all accounts it's put out in with a 100. An example out businesses on small and large divided the campaign I've not seen either campaign but analyst of any business will endorse There were a 100, an medium is part of this part of the genis flihad, not taken money from for large corporations or copper backs Frank densets. 

Oh, exact year, I wanna guess around 2017 I could be off. I can find out for you, a key thing that store that was because, but we is an office, of course, have hundreds investigations going on any moment time hundreds. Okay, I'm not up soon every single vestigational times right? 

That those investigations are not public? Well, I did not want to take money from folks or investigating, okay. And I could put that on my website, I without my envelops, but checks still would come in. 

OK,, that's problematic for all sorts obvious reasons. And so I also can't have cause ves are public nor my political team can know what those investigations are we have a clear line about there? But I mean, literally don't on my campaign, I can't tell them we're investing. 

That's not public information, so it's reliant on me to sort of know tracking these investigations and who spend me money and sometimes entities your investing. Send your check thinking that might be helpful. So for me at some point I look, it's just, I can't. 

I can't do that? Things being too large as a candidate, the amount of money coming in, and so for me, that was a key motivator from my decisions like, you know what I'm just, it's cleaner this way, right? I just don't take it, so look at against week. 

Look, we were closer with the business scenar's Attorney General I mean, pick your we importance our laws around when people purchase vehicles. We meet with car dealers regularly as known as I can mandous. We can talk with the law enforcement, what they're doing of how can we can DEd to make sure that they want to be following all I tend, those means personally retail crime staff force. 

I end those meetings, businesses aren't businesses, so I guess I don't, I understand my assemant don't confuse her A. Decision, try and keep my life kind of clean, politically. Folks donate me right? 

Um, I with anything else that's, uh, I'm proud of the business. Probably have the campaign which, as far as I can tells more than anyone else in terms of those supdoors who rent taxi run businesses. 

Hello, apology know what they had a story last week said, you don't take any money from businesses and middle is bad on us if it's if it's a cat and renewait taken small business or back at the wrong person. 

Hold on quite like my rare. I'm glad, yeah, so I didn't see that I would feel like every guys right? Pretty carefully felt I'd be surprised, but definitely, with the way we describe this hate nominy from large operations for per packs. 

Now it's how where you draw that line Australia, I think it's 50 employees, Frank, we can double check out, you know, but we just tried to draw a line that words. That mitigative, at least this issue that we definitely had when I was, yeah, when I was reaching 

Question far, is there anything to the attory general or the governor if you become can do to get going back here and to facilitate getting new management and bone? 

The last question, by the way, is over. Yeah, for my favour used by telling a pretty question, I feel like for a Sydney, I feel like I'd answered 15 voice and so I guess I'll try and be brief. So my dad were took for 4 years, right, talk like a lot of families here. 

That was that was our family right? Um. And the in what I would say is whether that's issues related to trade or issues like this, Boeing, that is where our governor has a certain bully, pulpit and relationships to build to try to make sure we're track in business here, right? 

So whether it's personally tangles and trade missions, which I would do as governor or a resount. What obvious there is any occupy by any opportunity, right? From my goodness, bring and bone back, right? 

Of course, I can't be engaging those conversations and whatever I could, if I felt that was something that was that was possible. Hello, how likely that might be and would be personally involved in them? Sorry, I hope I've been too long. 

The answers question, how many of you I just might know I can start trying to shortn it up. 

Was this bad questions? And then I've got one. 

Returning 2 initiatives, the 2124, which would allow folks to opt out of the long-term care real watchers, you said that you, I pose that initiative. But what about the flaws are a kind of inherent in it. We've made a portable which are largely remained portable, which is great, but there are folks who've paid in who aren't going to get me seeing the arguments that the amount will not really put a Dent in the true cost of one care about while living longer, we ever health needs. 

Isn't this a chance to sort throw it out and start over? 

But I think it's feel softly, we're, I just grew folks who do want throwing out something I think trying to dress a real need, we have. I don't think the main line that folks would see, which is main tens of thousands of dollars that insignificant, that can be very meaningful if you're facing that crisis, which many families are down the road, like, I guess I would not minimise that maybe others do. But I would not minimise, that is, I cannot solve all the financial. 

Impact profits, of course, not will help. Yes, so the intent of what the legislatures try to do with that. I support like the climate is it perfect melbot fair show us arguing for roles amount that are large, right. 

They're constantly being tweaked and improved, and that's the way out of approach something like that. The portability, I think they have address, that was one I'd mention when a crisp ameter, you need to address that that's good, so I'm always open to conversations to improve for sure, and it should be approved like the climate act. But your point of things still just, they throw the baby out of the bathwater, initially through the initial process aimed as a step backwards on a ruling portion writing, this can help us. 

Um, so I thank you. I'm going after questioner, and am sharing with us that you read would not be voking executive publish. 

This governments on a website 2000 

Right. Yes, thank you really appreciate that. I'm wondering, I guess, a couple parts of the question is, what do you think about the legislation continue to press the ad and clean that as a privilege and then also I know that you sort of regenerated their ombudsman, the person you played as a advocate for not for open government for agencies, and then also we use Ruped criticisms of the agg's office that public rapid requests are often met with. 

Well, you have to send us the check first then we'll send you a desk a flappy disc or a, you know, instead of just sending an email with the records requested. It's kind of so we described it as passive in terms of sharing information. So the true generals laugh decide to get that right? 

So I'm on, there's a few Surfing mission. Feel free to remind us trying to count down so on now. I think I was talking with Jim Bruner earlier this during him mention that so I check of the team Lang that will be changed by this summer. 

The the Victoria. 

But the last is much on a, yeah, so, so so so I'll go back with him to feel free to followers, but I did. I spoke and in a real gym. I thinking I forget with the conference out of until you mentioned that if I recall correctly, so I'll double check about that, right? 

I'm sure it's the same. It's the same issue, um. Andrew asked about the legislature how he feel about 

Legislation. 

I mean, my record pretty clear on that. I mean, woman, that is, you came down. 

Um. 

For the lecture, you know, uh, you guys all had a right print page editorials about that issue. I wrote down Frank, you said at the time, in the 37 years, I've served as publishing our state. I've never seen as blame or a dangerous intack on your right to know that the inexplicable attempt at bipartisan legislative leadership in Olympia to essentially keep you from knowing what they're doing. 

I agree with that. Okay, Moore voted for that. I know there's last part of my own this room I done, but but in contrast on that the state legislative only very few sacred shoes that can hire their own lawyers so I don't have a legal obligation to represent them very unusual, right? 

I was always. I have no choice right to our call you want to do something or their lawyers. I don't have discretion on there. 

Look, I did not represent them. You guys somewhere. An article about that people my party were angry at me for that decision, put it very, very mildly, okay, we were on a muga's brief to the court about that up and the judge actually adopted our reasoning. 

They were ruling the way they did. 

Um. 

You know, it's felt strong about that, and because I was free that I could particularly what I thought the while was and was also the right thing to do. That wasn't confined by some of my dutis, the uttering language. I almost always have so look at AI. 

You know um. 

I'm not changing my views on this, and I think it's unacceptable, and you know, and marked by Boden. 

I don't know up. 

Yeah, I guess you see, I'm sure I'm sure you asked about that, but the doors are my views on, yeah, but by the way, like I'm just as AI know, we got over a time, but I'm true. I want to book everything I don't pack higher. He the case in Pierce County that was number of years ago about the personal devices, having records, right? 

I wrote a brief bear. A democratic crossing attorney took a different position. We win our week. 

We'll have to write that brief right, I can just take a pass on it. Those make his briefs run on no obligation file abily know, if someone writes a work thing on my phone that is disclol we did that spending time and time again. I have taken pretty active rules and public roles on issues that prepared the sartorial board in a way that angered my friends and Democrats. 

And so, you know, I just want to be shred, I think that in the question, yeah, select can tell me why I shouldn't go any longer. 

Um, right? We want to say a word. 

Yeah, I'll try to head a shorter, but I don't think I'll go through much of this a couple things one is, but for general elections to mean, mean, Dave writer, that's what's gonna happen in this campaign. I just want to share one thing with deep rackers. I think you should know before you do your endorsements. 

I just find out the date on this my apologies. I'll get the day for this and I'll have my campaign manager send you the audio, but during this campaign daykers asked a question about the second amendment, I was going to read you a part of what he said in response, okay, so in Berlin, it would have been several months ago, but during this order to be clear, it's, it's a this campaign sort of thing. So I'll give you the whole antipay the park at the end, he says, so I'm also big found the second amendment because that wasn't part of your question too, in fact, I was packing the day when I had interviewed sale times and I let them know they had a gun on my hip just because I don't like the scale times Anybody worked for the sale times the reporter. 

Looking me and said, I know it's your panting. Any particular reason I said yeah, I'm a cup. I used to be a cup. 

I pack all the time anyway. My gun tonight. I knew I wouldn't need it here so I left in the car, so I'll leave that with you, we have the Audi on there. 

I want to know about Dave writer, she says, one thing when he thinks he is speaking to his supporters in a room and he says something else to the public. Gallu, I'm sure folks from have disapprements for me on things I do I get there, but I think I have tried 20. Years to be very clear that where I stand for even most controversial issues Even the most controversifications and look, I'm sorry time after time, he is showing himself in this campaign, and I do not think that is acceptable, whether it's marriage equality or denying science around climate, and there will be more as this campaigles, for I won't be very clear about that. 

And NI just think here's show out of touch with this editorial board, and they're farming majority of washing tones on issue after issue afterissue, and that's who is, I'm sorry on the whole 3 bot thing I know the atrow, so he denounced it, do you no. Need announced it at a press conference Monday morning and called him out at length. It's what kind of person have a decency. 

Only then did he rushed to a TV station to say he denounced it. That's the only time we did Friday quite Saturday quite Sunday, quiet. So look, you know, we'll have a lot more safe that day, as the camp angles for arbit worker on m. 

But I did want to share that obviously had that as you read. 

I would be interested in the ideal and also that didn't happen with our endorsement. I mean. 

It's unclear when this happened by the way, so Aussie do the ideal like it does? He didn't say was a tool was a reporter. I don't know, I'm just sharing what he just declared, I'm just sharing what he said, okay, but no, so Bailey will send you the audio. 

I'm caller. I get into the car and I was sure I can mentional, but I too so so so so we'll send you idle so you've gun, we'll have to deep for its, well, and when give you the ideof the full conversation, all the stuff you guys with one have just so, you know, just, you know, and 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you really good time all the questions. Yeah, sorry if I went on too one for some of my holy. 

Don't believe me, you were not the word. 

Hello, that's to the hero. I'll take out then. Thanks again, appreciate it become extra copies, it's just a case here bet.
