https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=70SkmhBy1XM

2.Bob Ferguson | Full Address and Q&A | Oxford Union
Jun 4, 2018

Thank you so much the hospitality. He has just been wonderful. So it's been a lovely time on a lovely campus, I want, thank you and all the folks who volunteered to put this spread together. 

I really appreciate we've had a, we've had a great time before. I had a few remarks before we get to the questions and the um, but when the Australian naky mentioned the time 100 Les earlier this time, 100, the most important people in the world, which I made last year, which was quite a surprise. Thank you very much which was a bit of a shark, as you might imagine, the thousands April Fools', they joke and I'm 1 of 7 kids, and from the Catholic family in Chelle, Washington in my family were 6 boys and one sister and I got a phone call from my older brothers when this list came out and he said, abb, are you making the time? 

100 list is quite a promotion, because you're not even the most influential person in our family that was about So the first referring to who that was is my one sister and my sister and she's here with me today and my sisterans, please welcome my sister and houses here. 

Team focus on safeguarding our networks with real-time, intelligence and behaviourbased decisioning but my true fashion is supporting other women in the texts. After all, tack is about shaping the future for everyone. 

Check out. So we've had it. We've had a great visit, we spend time in London, went to the theatre. 

I watched some shows and then appeared and so that this trip was little different than last year. I came to England with 3 college bodies and in 8 days we went and travelled around England to see a 6 english Premier League football matches, so this trip has been more refined, in last years than last year's trip, so I did promise my buddies that we come with the intention of seeing these football matches, but also Twitter in english Premier League football team, that was our club. For doing this trip and so the team we adopted the Bournemouth tears but obscured former Cheries. 

So I promised my buddies, I would give a shout to anyhow the manager or have request anyhow to welcome us to bomb next year. Remic another trip back we want to go to former can see his team play, so he's watching we want to come see him. So thanks for having me and everyone just have a few comments about. 

Feel a bit about the ral. The 20 general marshing stade litigation. We have against a Trump administration and just to give you a sense, since don't true was collected President, my office, for example, has filed 26 lassies against her Trump administration. 

That's a lot of litigation in just a little over a year. And ahr so far, I think it's worth pointing out that 6. Those those cases have been decided. 

There's no more appeals, like the first trial bank case, tells mention, there's no more appeals. The cases are over. We won all 6 those of those cases, for 6 no cases, 3 more cases had decisions for a federal trial court judge, but could be appealed or are appeal. 

We've won all 3. Those cases helped so far, not a single federal judge. Whether appointed by a Republican President or a democratic present, has ruled against us and ane these challenges and some half an outful heycoming so many lawsuits against the President. 

What I often says. Well, Hey, how can the present keeps issuing executive orders their unconstitutional, we're a laugh. That's where the question should be put on the administration. 

Their job is to u enactlaws and rules that are lawful to follow our constitution and they continue not to do it. One thing else says that we'll pay get this in the Q nie is at all. These cases are very important for the legal issues, the very point for the people were impacted. 

We're talking upstairs, but the travel bank. End people from my home state of Washington, for example, students at universities were travelling abroad will happen to be from the 7 Muslim majority countries were impacted by the travel ban, who could not return to my step, can not return to their state. What's up with that, right? 

It's an America that Muslim travel down and Araby was unconscitional as well, and in my view, these cases like the travel ban go to core. Issues of Hui, as Americans are as people. I can go down this on some of me. 

These cases, and there are formal aspects their relator to demark to their state letes think, for example, for the first trial ban case, the president's argument department justice's argument on behalf the present they argued that They didn't just argue that the presence has won the authority to issue executive order what she does. He's the present elections have consequences. They actually argued in their briefing in anon largement of 4 or federal courts that the presence authority, I'm crating out from their brief is unreviewable. 

By the courts, but the present can enact and act can an act aware exactly war like the trailband and the courts can't even look at it. That was literally the argument. That's breathtaking for democracy, we have separate branches of government. 

There's never in the law. It is not the law we should tell when I can allow that to be the law. And we're thankful that the federal courts rejected that argument in that travel ban case. 

So issues like that. There's reason why that first trial bank cases already taught off schools in the United States, because it goes to the limits of presidential story are those limits, right? And thankfully my keys, we prevail, I want to mention that. 

And the first trial bound case and masd lakers was the first challenge to the present. Um, this public sector who became present. He signed the first trial ban are that executive order you'll sign on Friday night. 

We were chatting upstairs a little bit about. He had we met the decision to file last weekend, my teamwork very, very hard if we're in the office working that weekend, happy chat about more detailed but it was a very intense weekend and I decide we're going to file that lasted on Monday, so the executive voters signed on Friday and we're trying file last Monday, which is a massive body. Of work. 

Put a mile, but unfort's pages of documents put it together and creak the legal argument as a huge challenge. But we put together on Monday, filed at last Monday or the only state to fire. At that point, all the states already to join us. 

Other states came on board a little later round, which we very Christopher in the beauty of our system. I think the United States is that as outrageous as the presents actions were an extra travel ban. We had a hearing before federal judge that Friday, exactly 1 week out to the trailban was executed chat, robot, a judge appointed by present. 

George W. Bush on my state of Washington. We had a hearing and we are asking for an injunction, we're asking for the judge to put a stop to the trail ban, which was in effect. 

It's a very difficult hurdle for a lawyer to meet to go before a federal judge and they put a stop Twitter action. You're opposing, especially for something that present did, but the judge rounded that request, which could start to the trail ban the moment he signed that order. So in other words, within 1 week from the present, issuing that travel down Within a week, we'd put a start to it, and so there's a lot of concerns about this present, which I shared on mini levels, but I do a faith in our institutions. 

In the United States, the real value, a free press, and I do believe that those institutions are stronger than any 1 person in. A federal courthouse in the federal courtroom, it is not the loudest voice that prevails. It's not all the thrill judge cares about is your keys. 

The extractur piece and the law on the Constitution. That is it, it cannot twitch way out of a Pram in the federal corpora doesn't work right. So it's a great level. 

It's a great playing field and frankly, all the challenges and many of us see what this present, what he says, how he says it that comes back to haunt him in a courtroom for a judge, will focus on the law on the facts, your case. I think that is a key reason why we've continue to have success after success working. With other states with democratic Attorney General to have a lost success on a lot different issues and look forward to chatting about those with thaty too. 

Thanks for much family looking forward to you or your question. Thank you very much. 

Thank you for joining us Bob. So a Quick follow-up question on the Muslim band so you said that you issue so a trip shooting on Friday and you had a challenge on Monday and he worked directly with the governor of Washington and other companies such as Amazon, how world did they play in actually supporting on the challenge? 

Took a good question. So couple tots, my governor and state wash and James Lee, fantastic governor I knew some. I'm close to and I was thankful that I'm in a state where Ah, my government was support of what I want to do our assessment, I don't ask permission from the governor I'm gonna while wash on behalf the people I can just do that. 

But of course, I'm calling to give a head to the governor and it helped a lot to know that a government could be supportive publicly with our efforts, it could help with our case that was wonderfully helple. The second point you mentioned Amazon Expedia. That weekend, we decide that and trying to craft our home for the judge. 

One thing we had to show was that we are standing. We had a dog in the fight to be in front of court, it's not always intruded the Attorney General preparing a lawsuit on behalf of the people, as opposals would say that graduate student was travelled abroad and cannot come back into her seat. She's always been armed shipper in the last few. 

It's not always in true to the weather. I can bring it. So when we have to show the harm tour steak and so in kicking that around my sister general know her self thought. 

Hey, we should reach out to our entities businesses in our in our state and safe, they file decorations time are harm to those businesses in terms of an inability to recruit or focus from those businesses might be travelling. Brunt who can't get back in so early on Sunday morning that weekend. I can pose I thought I could get away with making a phone call. 

I was calling the proper council for Amazon and Expedia and other businesses in our state. In both Amazon Expedia agreed they would file declarations and they did by Monday, I did the very next day. They moved very, very quickly when that helped make our case. 

We also want to show many levels. The key was about a lot of things through of law, the impact on those individuals on businesses, on national security without in a negative way. And we're trying to tell all those stories with our filing with our port papers at that Monday. 

Hope I'm so going back to the start of your political career. Looks like got your rice aunt block office and including your challenge to the democratic incumbent and was actually holding the seat on the King County council for 10 years. Shodn how you want about defeating them. 

He, let's come back a little ways, but, uh, ahbourh and my sister members, this campaign well, so I was a lawyer, practing line a lot from its scattel. In my 30s, I was ancient politics that I'd run for office. I ran for a local office our county council in county to be counting, it's got a couple million people in it and I decided to run against a tunity campaign who havenly a Democrat like me, which is not the easiest path into politics. 

You might imagine, and she had the support of the democratic parties you might imagine. So it was a grassford campaign, I took a leave outs from my job and my laugh room. I knocked on 22000 doors. 

It's what I did every single day for many months, just coming round, knocking our doors and we're not spent to the one, but And we just, we might talk directly to the people and prevailed a very close election, but I was able to win in. I guess I'll say about that, is it was really. I've looked back on it through the perfect weaker in the politics, because only people drop checked my campaign or my family members, my friends, my colleagues at work I was at there, no packs, we had no institutional support of any kind at all. 

Terrier, so I got like an office. I didn't really owe anyone anything other than I'll make sure my family was proud of my work, and as well as my friends fell out as in guitar, but I didn't hope anything and it's like ripe in the comes late. You can make decisions at will angry. 

Your friends and supporters sometimes institutions, right? The party supporters, but you know you can survive there. Looks like gone office away. 

Perfect. I'm so also did the story of your career. You came to see practising laws potential for q more enterprise, a phase that you have used many time since or could you describe the context in which you started your career, when the cold war was winding down and a general sentiment under Ronald Reagan's administration. 

Yeah, it's uh, I mean, I do think of might work in the law as a moral enterprise. II think a lot often times through more lends are improt because a large part, because I say this, my team all the time right there, the law has a huge impact on people like every case. You bring. 

Has mass implications. Someone's life has been impacted, buy that last and you have always remember that. Yes, we have to focus on the Constitution, but to tell the stories or to think about the stories of causing the impacted by that, and I think that the law can be used as a great equaliser on behalf of those camera have access sustees and access to quality lawyers. 

There's a fellow care broadcastellers was working in the office. Terry general for more than 30 years, he's happened to be here in England and he's visiting here today as well, and we have those who. This is what they do and keep that mind at all time. 

So I do think of the law. In that way, in terms my upbring, yes, role Reagan was present, it's took a performative time as I was as I was growing up and I think for me, the primary drivers for how I think about the world are team primarily to my family. And my sister have an uncle or elite uncle, was a casual priest, very big influence on all the kids and the families. 

We're very close to him and his focus on social justice. Was it was very real to our family, my mother's a special education teacher long, retired now but special education public school, so She always had a perspector that she brought 2 the dangerous people every night we had family models. Kids about the u matter, use the challenges that people had. 

So I think I was raising environment that really focused on those kinds of issues, and I think that really helps me my job. 

Absolutely. I'm so have you have stated that urrenc's office is more consequenction than the govership? And why do you think that is the case. 

In bankers says there's no more consequential office in government than being Attorney General and so I think that is important to an executive position right number 2 I think the litigation in the treadministration is example of how consequential it is as Attorney General as I mentioned early I don't. Ask permission file lasted like that. Anything to do? 

I'm doing it, and there are few positions in politics. We had that level of independence and autonomy on issues of state, national international significance. And I love that about the job and I love that about the job and we have a fantastic team so I think let's take on this travel ban. 

We have an army of a Chinese professional safe. Who can make that happen. And do it very, very well, and so I think now I first ran pre general 2012, what I would say, Hey, I miss the most consequencial office and state government people give me a funny look. 

How can that be attorney generals, as was her sleepy lawyer now, and I say that nobody gives me funny, walk right, or did they get our consequential release? 

Absolutely. So you also said that the secret to being a successful lawyer is being a good storyteller. The story have told 4 about the Trump administration has resonated across the nation and across the world, what advice would you give to those in the audience of we're hoping to follow you a pathat's becoming a turning 

Will RI hope folks to consider that what I would say is we have a lot of lawyers in the world, which is a good thing. But we don't have nearly a lawyers to do public service aza, it's occurring a lot, it is not it as lucrative for sure than being in private practice, right? But you know, my sister general admention. 

Earlier, who did the argument for the trial court in the night circuit decision on the travel ban, but he was working in a private offer, left out to become sister general at a fraction of what he would otherwise be making in. He's making a profound difference in that end, the need is so grit. Right, like in my country, just the need for folks had access to the justice dotted, navigating that system have an advocate who knows what the heck he is doing. 

Oh my God, you know, it's, you know, the core itself can be a level player which you guilly, get to the courtroom and have. A good advocate, and those are 2 big steps to get there sopho. If you're thinking about being a lawurch, I help you to consider. 

Consider public service that the need is so great in our in our society in our world. And that's why I would that's why enurage folk to do and archae's I means dad, this is way off-topic, but I ha, we just live in my country. I also by my country is such a consumer-driven society in the United States are And you know, just Ah, that's override. 

Yeah, I think the safe tact that comes with life is helping other people, right? And family that that motivates me and I think that it's easily that I think in the United States were just all the communication that comes down and you need to make money. Have a big house. 

Get a new car, that's stuff. It doesn't move me, I just. It's not. 

It doesn't matter to me, I don't think it's important. 

As a follower of question, so one of your main focuses, as Attorney General is to increased consumer protection. Here are having double the size of the conservalucrabilities. 

Now yeah. 

It would you reflect on the necessity of protecting consumer's rights and whether the billion dollar corporations that violate the law had become tools should 

Yeah, so just focused on consumer protection. It is what it sounds like right, that if consumers are being taking advantage over the marketplace, someone's Now Playing by the rules, we can bring the lawsuit against we're beginning. It's concast right now, rightfor unfair building, we can soon compost on behalf of the people say to wasting, but more successful, we can return dollars people. 

Who lost out unfairly on dollar? So it's a very powerful tool that all age have think the big tobacco litigation against bacco company. Many years ago, those were state ages, including one of my processors, Chris gregar sued the battle companies, billions of dollars were in that some massive massive case, so I've enlarge arkanset protection division dramatically, because Look oftentimes. 

Powerful interests do not play by the rules and the average washingtony in my state does not have the resources to suomcast, right? I'm using emas example frightbut many others write to take on their power plenty, how do you do it well, that's why we have a team in our office will do it on behalf of people say to Washington, where I felt when he became a train general as rob knows that I don't think we had a big enough team to take on those big complex cases that can. Drag out for years and have a multipway trial. 

We can have great people, but wasn't big enough, so I've grown that operations. We can take on big, complex cases that can have huge impact, not just not steeply around the countries will have to change. 

So the darker, which stands for advot action for jail arrivals, says another Obama Arab policy that has been under threatering the Trump administration. Could you talk about this legal challenge from your perspective? 

Yeah, so most you probably know, we refer to the folks under the Docker program is dreams. There's about 800000 rumours in the United States. These are individuals who are brought to United States as children as little kids buy their parents, their parents came into the country illegally improt their children with them said grown up in the United States. 

United States is only country. These kids have ever known, they are as American as I am in every respect, and so President Obama creed this darker program. And allow these thousands individuals to live, work, go to school United States without risk of being deported. 

President Trump analysed a number of months ago. He said he would rescind that program affected March 5th a couple months ago unless Congress act at which they have not I along with their full capabil. Othere's father lasts suit the next day, challenging that decision, saying that that was unlawfully to have the authority doing the way that he executed Aha, and we've been successful. 

The federal trial court judge agreed with us. So the reason why the darker program is still in effect. It is because of the last CS, I had nothing for that. 

Those individuals can be deported. I's just had one thing i mentioned early my outside about how these cases matter for the individuals. Well, this is pretty fundamental right? 

Whether there was 800000 people can live in the United States or be deported to a country, they do not know Right, they may not speak the language, don't know anybody that's what's at safe for those folks, but also just to be clear in order to become a dreamer, you have to come out of shadows, say who you are, where you live, or you go to school, where you work well. Your family members, are, they may not be? They may not be In the country legally, so you have to come out of showers provides information voluntarily to the federal government, which has the power to deporte, right? 

That's the first step before you qualify for the federal government has promised they would never use the information against those individuals to deport them. Fact that there's even a website from the federal government. It has a frequently asked questions when the question is with this information. 

Every used against me answer no. On the day that the President announced the recission of the data programme that question an answer on their website was removed. What's up, right? 

It isn't a deal with deal you make a promise. Someone comes out of shouts provides all this information, and then the day you mountain signal didn't really mean it. Look that is fundamental. 

Just as a people in America, right? You teacher children, it deals a deal, my son, Jack, he's 10, he's into poker cards, right or put my cards thing here, I don't know if they are not, but even holy out cars. I know they're they're international not, but he'd like to trade them with his buddy. 

So he and his buddy, Elliot, they trained poker cards that Jack comes me 1 day and says, Hey, daddy, I realise I traded a very valuable poker card from it's not very valuable. We go back up the Elly house and do the deal. What am I going to say to him, sorry, Jack, you made it. 

I mean, I like the deal now. I get that, but you mean a deal, you gotta stick to that deal. It's basic, it's what we teach as parents, well, that takes me to deal, we're not talking poker cards, right? 

So once a stick again, yestere's legal arguments sometimes obscure legal arguments, but with its state goes to speak as so much more fundamental network, right? It's like who might be we are my country as a people. And that's why these lawsuits are so important meaning to our people. 

Um, what do you think is gonna come next u? In the growing list of legal battles against a Trump administration? 

That's a tricky question are well, if we had in this conversation a year ago, maybe after the first trial ban. Case, if you said heybad, do you think you're gone 25 more lasts, I would laughed like that was not on the radar, it was not part of any plan that, so it's I've learned that anticipate, or a 2,, you know, it's, it's just hard to predict that said. There is nothing about this administration that suggests to me that they are changing course. 

In terms of issuing out executive orders and laws, their unconstitutional earmark on the need to be challenge. I just want to see me slowing down anything, it's it's almost accelerating so I suspect if we're talking in a year or you're checking in a year that I soon we'll have more licensail defined, but it's really up to the ministration, not to me, right? It's up to them, you know, a 9 cases, begnils for itself, right? 

Um, they need to get their act together from a legal standpoint, and they just haven't done that this one. 

Absolutely, I'm so let's now talk a little bit about domestic politics here. What are your predictions for the upcoming minimum elections? And do you think the Democrats have a strong chance of regaining a majority. 

I think some expert on this right where we're leaving area, I know very well when I actually follow very closely, but I don't tend to be an expert, but uh, for the information I hear from folks in West days. I talked to other regies around the country, what they're seeing on the ground in their states, he yelled the reports of a blue wave democratic wave. I think that's real. 

I've talking to my state to Republicans, who might trust their political judgement, and they think it's AA blue, we've coming. And I know that we'll see at the local level at the state level and international level is it enough to retake Congress back you know, I'm not crunching a little detail just by district to know the answer to that, but You see, the retirement of Republican officials in Congress and my state legislature left and right. That's explories, right, that they see what's coming. 

And so I would be very surprised there was not a significant blue wave at all those levels local state national, just how big wave it is. It's a long time 20:20 now? Archaeology saw a luck can happen. 

The works hands right now. Let's face coming. 

Absolutely. I'm. So you're also prominent a environmental defender in a country, a significant proportion of the population does not believe in climate change, and in particular, Republican lawmakers and do you think it's possible to change that mentality, it could talk about what you have been doing as Attorney General to ensure the US government and Washington State apparchitects, our environmental 

The first question tougher in terms of how to change that mentality. I'm not sure honestly, I have a any answer to that because for extended to the facts or the facts, or the facts on climate change. If focused on recognise that all the kings are a significant throughout, I'm not sure what either or you or anyone can say, right. 

I think only that will make change as one. People start feeling the effects. They were starting to see around the world only personally start to feel that or their loved ones start to experience that in terms what my office is doing a malkie's relatively short, but at the 26 lawsuits that we have filed as administration. 

I'm sure half of those of guess their team are related to environmental issues. I won't go through the mall romaniable, but I can tell you, is that um, many of these girls, the marma tech agency headed by skut proof. A former train general from sable Guam who, as a train general glamour family Licence against Egypt, trying to roll back environmental protections when President Obama was present. 

So there has been, I think it's fair to say a systemic effort by the administration, particularly with Scott crew, to roll back as many Obama error environmental protections as possible. So at half our lawsuits have been related to those kinds of issues. The good news for us is we keep being them in court, because they're in such a hurry to do this, that they are? 

Kimberly swap, but there are certains you must do to change policy. You don't just get a sign your name. You've got to go through, take certain steps to get public analysis that do these things, and over and over, they refuse to do that, and that has allowed us to be successful and challenging numerous environmental. 

It attempts to roll back environmental protections, but these are significant threat. Climate change, which has obviously significance. So we'll see our please out, but I see no change in the way they rule out these changes in policy. 

So I think you'll see more at which far less than last 48 hours on a significant case on vehicle emissions standard is put in place by the administration, which had a huge impact On our environment, climate change attempting role dolls back. We think will be successful in that case as well. 

Absolutely. So my final question before reopened up to the audience? Given the ongoing investigations on Russian interference here, do you think a Trump impeachment processes on the horizon, or is it too early to tell? 

For me, you know, it's AI don't know that's a short answer, right? Um, my life is pretty full with my day. Jorbin, the work we have against for administration and with my wife raising young children, so I'm of course, interested, what propaolis doing? 

I read newspaper Les about it, but I've no inside information, have no idea where that's gonna go. Um, and that will be interesting. He's a serious guy and I will not want to be the target this investigation. 

I'll tell you that and so we'll see where place out, but I think too soon today and only people know where that's going and they're not talking. 

So now it's a good time to open any other question. Please raise your hand and wait for the microphone to reach you. Um, and stand up before you ask your question so we can start with the gentleman. 

The second rough 

Abuse can briefly about the challenges that are people face to access justice. Basically, so I'm an outsider to this whole legal profession, or some of the sort of greatest challenges that people are, perhaps not aware. 

You bet, so in speaking for the United States, for example, other folks who simply do not have the financial resources to hermanitary to represent them, they may not speak english and have no idea how to navigate a complex judicial system. They may not be in the country. Legally, they're entitled to consumer protection protections, for example, right, but They may not be very comfortable calling up the Attorney General if they're not in our country, legally to say they've been target a scam. 

For example. So there are all sorts of challenges is to access the court system in a fair way. And that's why the important role, the attorn general in the United States truly comes in on issues like consume protection, civil rights enforcement that we have the resources we have the ability to bring those cases on behalf of people and bring justice to them, that said there are huge challenges in my state every state in the country with what we call these access to justice challenge is that Many millions people have our country. 

Thank you so the next question we'll go to the gentleman. Second 

Hi, thanks for the talk. I was wondering, so I think it was a couple weeks ago. The Supreme Court, I heard arguments regarding the Trump travel band I think it's like Trump verses, Hawaii youth so like for either contingency, whether goes another. 

What's your plan or your plan of action regarding the decision, what you plan to do. 

Afterwards, yeah, good crime, I'd you ask because a travel ban litigation is complicated so I'll give you the 32nd summary, so there have been I think now 3 different travel bans. If I got my count, right? So wash the case, I talked about was the original travel band right? 

We won a trial court might circuit. They did not appeal the Supreme Court, they had ever rescind that first travel right um, by the way, for its worthy, I did. Tell my legal team to ask the court. 

We have the pilgrim of PR costs for haven't responded to their appeal. It was they told me this cycled me very much money I at the point I want the photo check to the seat to Washington PC Washington for everyone, money. It is I want to make that point I won't confirm or deny whether that check is frame in my office by the week since rock from a, but that was that was important to me there have been successive travel bans each. 

Trying to narrow it a bit more to meet. Untiontional master. Basically, we challenges the other ones, but now other states were challenging while including Hawaii. 

So we were early in court, on the other travel bans, a chief federal judge, in Hawaii granted the supplies requests for injunction. So that's the case that went forward, not art, so we're not to say wash. It's not the party, in that case, it's a safe while breakcans is out and we obviously followed it all argument at the Supreme Court pretty closely. 

Reports of now, you can't read too much indoor arguments. But most folks, most observers felt that there seemed to be a majority of the usual court that appeared willing to te. issue holding that would uphold most. 

If not all of the travel, but who knows right, you can read too much into norle argument to your question of What the next epide would be for us so much depends on what that ruling looks like. Let's assume prepare for the worse, that takes a bad decision from my perspective that allows some parental to go forward or have to go forward her brownies that red was that mean from my steep for the people. That might take a law will depend on how the court crafts that decision so be hardesling. 

What that means that it could be in the road if it just behave the trial being as constitutional. There really is any more way to challenge that there may be some details for individuals have they worked out, but from A Large sense, the rule in my office may be really limited. Once the springboard is spoken, it's spoken, but so much would depend on the ruling and how they write. 

It is obviously very important, but we'd expect a decision in the next couple. 

Thank you, I'm actually as a follow-up question. I'm upstairs. We're talking about your relationship with the US Attorney General obsessions, you talk a little bit about physically. 

Have you know such opposing views or the working relationship has been 

Ah, right? I guess. A Aum that Ah, I'm the really is I regret to say there's not really a working relationship. 

I've asked after he became a train general. I've made repeated requests for meeting with the Attorney General are to talk about things like marijuana legislation in my South Washington, Washington, Colorado, with the first 2 states legalise marine it back in tweny 12 um, we milt, colder Attorney General for Barack Obama. Right after we are, the government came into office talk about marijuanletion. 

We made the same request for general sessions. These medicated clearly don't have any interest in meeting with us, which I think very disappointing, um, I get that here, had very different ideas around the legislation marijuana, but nearly in my line of work. I am frequently me with folks who have different views and about the law or about policies. 

But you know, folks make the often sprase how much common ground you can find at least agreeing what the facts are about your dispute, which is important. So frustration I have had that we have not had that meaning as a result, I think his ideas of legislation in the United States and might stay in particular. He's just wrong on key facts. 

He wrote a lengthy letter to me in the governor for example, early this year last, I think it was a long letter, criticising our system right, and relying on a report that was issued back in 2013 2014, his first criticism in this letter to me was hay. You guys have brought together your medical marijuana system and your recreational marijuana system into one unified system. That's a problem. 

There's just one prom with that. After that report came out, but before he sent me that letter, our state legislation are done exactly that a 32nd Google search could turn it up. nah nah, we done exactly what he told us to do, but we didn't long free worked the letter. 

Well, you know it's hard to how to I mean, I'm just hard thing to say, but it's hard to have a serious comedy. It's hard to take someone seriously, if that's we're gonna write in a letter to me. Great, um, so we had a right letter back saying Hey, I'm worried about that. 

It's a while ago. You know that report's updated, there's been a new report. And so it's a challenge, not just because we have different ideas right? 

But because it's hard thing to say, but I don't think he's especially interested to knowing what the facts are about marijuana legislation in my state. She's just not his actions, demonstrate that and it's hard thing to say about someone, but It's true. 

Absolutely. Thank you next question. She's like raise, we'll go to the gentleman. 

The school 

But we recently wrote an archaeols, suggesting that insurance companies should collect a carbon Levy. 

Sorry, I missed their school. 

Insurance companies should collect a carbon Levy. As it was a common published in nature. Now, the way our thinking was going was that are successful litigation ains, climate change is a matter of when it's not if and we're sort of imagining that some form of out of court settlement might be agreed that to avoid chaos in terms of legal action and plumbers and share prices in the like, just wondered what your views were on this, whether you thought that was realistic, and if so What the timings might be in what form that might take. 

And really think in terms of further legal challenges that are going on or in terms of 

Now, whether with whether with a legal challenge in your view, likely to be successful in the near-term yeah. 

Really? Yeah, I've look care about this. Cause your only train general, I give legal advice to our clients and state government, the governor and sometimes we talk about issues a rasa, gotta be all careful in alliance from sophied Louis Visa with my apologies, but um, we have a 20 client privileges with our clients so. 

I think what I can say is that we talked about governor genes leader government might see a wonderful governor he is intensely interested in climate change. His propulls, carbon taxes, for example, in our state, but he's very, very focused on this issue, and uh, we've had conversations around the issues, there have been some jurisdictions to have uncovered on the Front is major legal challenge based on climate change are public nuisance type argument, so those are just getting starting the court. 

So I don't think I'm, I can or should say what I think about those just because I may have a roll in my seat and rips and clients. I has gotta be careful about that. But I think those challenges are interesting. 

Um, I've had conversation might team about those but approaching, just give you an actual assessment of what I think about those on I think you will see more and more jurisdictions to bring in those legal challenges, so in a similar way, we imagine these tobackle cases that were back in the 19. It is that I've kept my decades right work. Fiji's brought numerous challenges against the back companies have resulted in a mass. 

I mean, many billions of dollars, I think this has that kind of potential to be litigation on that scale, and that magnitude. I think it's possible. 

Thank you next question. We'll go to the hand all the way in the back. 

Thank you. Do you think snyderan's departure from the New York Attorney General post would change the nature of investigations into Trump are Russian collusion and fraud, more generally a who things likely to take over from him. 

Umm, so first, I'm use for their time, I guess I just wanna. I think I just wanted first say that, obviously read about, I was up in the middle tonight, the little gent leg still and I read about it. And you know, I guess what I want to say is that for those women come forward, just speak out against the Attorney General of their state. 

The top law enforcement of their state who corned their allegations threaten them if they come forward. It takes a level of debt sets, you know. This says a lot about them entered the great credit um, so sitting side the human side of this and you start getting to Hey work's next on the legal side. 

Um, I've not had a lot time to think about that, but I thought about a little bit, and it's, uh, I'm confident that the work of that office and we work very closely with the near kg's office, very closely with them. Um I do not think you're going to see a change in their product. They're commitment to these issues. 

I think that's going to change slowly because there's a new leader that's going to come in, and I feel pretty confident about that I will say that there are multiple states who now bring these different lossons group we're talking about is a team effort about many democratic g. Yes. Some states lives have more resources and others when you talk about New York, that is in office, it has considerable resources. 

That's been a real leader on some of these cases that we worked very, very closely with, so they are A They are a critical component to allow that work that we're talking with here tonight. 

Thank you the next question. We'll go to other gentleman just back. 

Hi, thank you. So I was wondering if you thought or if you wish that um, there was something that citizens would do. Um, which would help with your work or they're gonna just out of the picture once you can carry on, if you're worse. 

It's interesting what citizens would help with our work out. It's a good question. I think what I would say is that I think what I would say is that, you know, uh, in the United States, with this President, or everyone, it falls on the political spectrum right? 

But when I sometimes take people like capitaling United States, it is no time to beyond the sidelines. Every has a different role. They can play. 

I thank God every day, I'm the 20 general, right. I do, and then I had the tools that I have, I think out every day, like the job that I am, but everybody's got a tool break. The women's March, right? 

The United States, the protest at the airports when the travel ban came down. Look at that helped, put a focus on the human. Write the human aspect of that outrageous executive order in a way that issue is that can is an Australian general right? 

I mean, that was on the news, all the time, international, right? And so, whether it's running for office or a tanning, a rally or writing a letter to elected official or your lawyer, and you can go to airport health folks who were trying to come in New Year, the idea it's just not time beyond the sidelines, where everyone is on the political. Spectrum, I just think it's set crucial time right now, and And the science that who reform that takes every personnel is different. 

Every school that is different, but there is something everybody can do if they care about these season. 

Thank you our next question. We'll go to the gentleman in the fourth. 

Thanks for much absolutes are more of a normative question that are following back on the trail down issue. So lots of the terms you refer to reflected on the the fact that this wasn't constitutional or was an American and generally the framing of the discussion wasn't so much about how to flouted. International law, specifically international refugee law. 

Bhara Harvey loves American constitutional. To what extent do you think that can have a cultural um or culture? Legal culture in which the references are not to Americas as part of an international community, but to Americas, as having its own self-contained legal system. 

If that's something that could be susceptible to change, could change, should change. 

Yeah, it's a shift question. It's what I would say is that on a case like the travel ban? Um. 

I'm sure that can found your art place. And this is how we created the 181 award, winning always. Can we partnered with the best experts in sustainability and design and after 3 years, 43 prototypes and hundreds of a test later, we did it. 

Today, we have over 30005 star reviews and always Pam. Just keep selling out ready to make cooking a lot easier. 

My team, we were acully aware of the international ramifications of that piece um and the impacts of people around the world in the case. Um, but I'm gonna craft the legal argument. It's gonna work, right, that's our job end, ensuring standing, for example, about your harm to washing tones, people in my state and so We're a laser focused on that. 

Now that said oh, how to we were successful that first travel ban, you know, I sergiene, some letters come to my office, not emails, he'll handwritten letters and they came from people all over the world, which is a reminder, us of the international significance of what's going on, right? Um, in terms of whether it's hit some change our courts system. I don't think you see some sort change in the norms or how we write, how we do those cases. 

But that's I think it is a reminder of would I have to see the last powerful thing, and it is, such a powerful tool, and it can have an impact, not just an our small stain washing, which they love it deeply but can have these international ramptions I around people. You know, almost every day who say, Hey, I'm from 1 to 7 Muslim majority countries. My grandmother was allowed to come every night with their family or I was able to marry the person I love because I mean, I'm not really exactually mate, that's on the daily experience from the last. 

Year so we're part of that. I stopped against some change in the legal system. That's we're aware of that, and uh, I it gives me. 

It is great meaning to that case, I'll say that. 

I'm as a full of question so questioned about q rightam and the US. Also, you formed a wing Luke civilization unit in the washing Attorney General's office and Brusly argued the island's flower case before the wasenior audience that don't know about it, truly describe the circumstances of the case, what the outcome was and more genderly. What do you think can be done to prove other q rights in the u? 

Yes? 

Yeah, so this was a big case in my stake and it now as first identical case has been argued at the Supreme Court, So you can be seeing a decision from the Supreme Court on this issue. I'll described here in the next month or 2 um, so my status. A few years ago a man went into a flower shop. 

Um to buy flowers for his upcoming wedding to his long time. Same-sex partner arm, if you went to the floor shop, he's always gone to. They've always served him when he went in when the owner, the store realised the flowers from before a gay wedding, I'm sorry I can't sell it was flowers and yes, why not? 

She said what I'm opposed to. A marriage have a religious opposition to it. So under Washington State law alm, you cannot discriminate against someone on the beases of things, arrivers, race, religion, age gender, but also, you cannot just from get someone in a consumer setting on the base of their sexual orientation. 

Which, in my view was pretty clearly what this was, I filed a lawsuit against that business controversial lassite. Certainly time I found it. Um, end, we failed to track court onto the state court, I did decide to argue that person before the stage in court, we predaild Nina. 

I want to clear if you treat everybody the same if you don't sell winning flowers at all. You have to sell to a couple, okay, but if you sell flowers to her essential couples. Yeah, soundtogether okay, you have to sell any picker product in your store. 

But, once you sell it, you can't discriminate that point okay, now, a very similar case came out of call, rather handful of cases like this one came out of Colorado, it was a bakery Kix. The firstly identical situation, the Supreme Court took that Kix. Could it be hours? 

They took that when that went to the Supreme Court, I was at that oral argument, and you know are a warning, AI still seem like too much in the winter help is that up and tell them there've been some cases like this in the usual court had declined to accept those cases for review. Which others are communicating? Third, good with those lower court decisions. 

Basically, but they chose to take this big picture. Forget point differences. New gorces on the spring or wasn't before, so it's been a slight change and make the Supreme Court, but that did come as a surprise that they took the case. 

They've had the whole argument. No one knows which weight's gonna go, but that case could have significant radications on whether with L GPT 2 individuals are treated fairly in the markplace. I'm just to be clear if someone has a religious opposition break, what the argument is that they could decline service to a person. 

Simply because they're opposed to Key marriage, for example, that would be a, you know, I can express how disappointing in a list with a sprinkle rules and flavour favour. This picket. I'd guarantee in 10 years or 20 years or 30 years, the usin quarteride decisions, right? 

The big saying we got that went wrong. We regret that a guaranteed. Generate. 

Um. I just hope it doesn't come to that I guarantee that just, it's not. It's not right against our constitution. 

Absolutely. Thank you about the next question or go to of the hand just around the run. 

So last month, the Supreme Court really came out where a judge gorce actually sign with the liberals on the bench, instead with expected, as with his fault conservatives. Do you think this is something that might continue in the future specialin immigration law? Or do you think that he's going to sort of have more liberal impact on the court going forward. 

Which seems safe we watch are just as pretty close as you might imagine in my office on one thing, I would emphasises out sometimes. But sometimes folks can all emphasise this justice conserve us just as a liberal. This justicinism and a good example is the first trial, benen case. 

actually every that Trump would appeal that to the uspick court, after we won the 9 circuit. Black cigarette rideep from love de ray on the night cigars is liberal court riot. They do not appeal. 

I'll tell you in a pillar, they would've lost, okay guaranteed, right? They would have lost, it wasn't about conservals about the Constitution last now I'm not suggesting our orientations of justice, of course, there are, but I think it can be overstated and but that said what I concerns about. Aum in the future court with prison Trump making appointments with the Republican senate. 

Yes, I do. But for just the score shirtage, it's early in his in his career. Um, we have the case before him right now. 

That was recently argued where and we're not sure where he's gonna go, for example, right questions, he may take at some unexpected position remain, who knows right, that it's so So we'll see, it's just electory on. I think, to try to pigeon, hold one or the other and often take 1. Maybe you can serve just on certain issues, but others, right? 

They were independent or even or lean on the left, so I think it's, I think sometimes it's easy to try and pitch on, hold justices or ages or anyone else in here, and it doesn't always fit. 

As the follower, would you support? If the Democrats take the senate, a place for moratorium on confirming Trump appointees to the bench. 

Oh, that's AI saying doubt about that. Well, I strongly hope to have to take control the senate. That would it would be wonderful from my perspective, uh, I don't know, I guess sir, what I can say is the to hold by the Republicans. 

Great, I've prison of bombers appointment was pure. I'm reads, I'll text right in my perspective, so hated to Ron's make a ride. You know where wearing Trump term is. 

This is it the same time period as. What prison's appointment right? Our growing didn't maybe turnme's fair play right? 

Can happy. Spain sustained for a couple years. I don't know the answer that question, I guess what? 

I just haha, you know, it's to me was so disappointed that prosecution of modern employment, right, that I become so politicised. I get the decines are politically great, I'm not naive. I get it, but at that position that appointment. 

The ninth justice we're still criticizeor in we're an interview. The guy, which I'm just not gonna do it, and that was deeply disappointing. And um, yeah, I think a lot would depend on the timing of when all that happened, but that at the next point will be extremely important mildley, am I might been not hood that person? 

Is as well I'd want to use the planet comes forward. 

Thank you have time for a couple more questions. Now I'll go to the waiting second. 

On our future in here are better or not. Instead, the damage Earth, the damage of the new environmental policies are is considered reversible for especially from impoverished communities that are being affected by online policies. 

Ahh, the challenges with the appear right now or significant fih. M. If I had even want to pick like the one agency, we are the most concerns, it's always a dangerous game, right? 

But with what I see with EPA it is especially concerting to means why we've had so much litigation. Frankly against eper, do I think your question directly? Do I think it's irreversal know? 

Uh, especially if Donald Trump's a one term present, okay, it just takes a long time to put some in effect, survive the core challenges, which they're not to under your job right now, frankly, right, survive all that and actually get those things. It takes a long time. I've learnt a lot about this process, so have you 2 term from administration? 

There's a lot more time for them to correct their mistakes, potentially survive legal challenges and put in changes. That could be very, very difficult unwide. So part's political right was me President 2020, but the good news is on some of especially outrageous things they try to do the courts haven't locked them so far. 

All were tied up in the courts right now and And that's why we're very focused on those cases right now. I don't optimistic, I get the challenges, but uh I know I don't think the rivers this time, a level will pend on how long they have to under the ability. 

Thank you. Have time for one final question or write. Glad of one or go to the hand. 

Em, this sort falls on from the question that you just hat I'm also was wondering about when you said a deals deal with reference to people who are welcomed. But for brought the United States that have lived there for their entire lives, having from broken by parents entered as legal immigrants, and I absolutely agree that those people deserve protection might be interested here firstly, what you think of in terms of how far that President school. So what interests you think are sufficiently important g? 

P. T. Arsed by our departure are preventing policy change. 

And there's also what you actually think of in terms of legal actors, preventing policy changes, which naturally are part of the natural political process. And so would ordinarily be looking allowed short of being very unconstitutional. 

Hello, everybody. So if you might give that first question when we're time to make sure I understand how to hone its 

So I'd be interested to hear what interest you think is or are sufficiently important to justify preventing policy change. 

I says, well in terms of all which my challenge to that, in other words, exactly 

Yeah, when do you think that suggestment am for legal is a step in? Despite the fight than the electric government is taking that action. 

Sure, so I guess each time I'll focus on her first one happy chat afterwards on the second piece have as well. Um, but the first one's important. It's a President civiliza authority, a mention before elections have consequences every day, there's something the President does right me with my team and I think it's outrageous. 

But we do not have a legal argument against. So I don't challenge that's to Congress and write to work that out. So we stay very focused on what he does we think is unlawful? 

The present hour is not unlimited as I talk about earlier. So taking tremors as an example. Um, we have a variety of claims does give maybe 2 examples of why I think it's important to bring in what those arguments are. 

So one is it. I believe that people like unleashed into po. The present took this action. 

umas, what are the racial cannamus aftows? In this case, family dreamers come from texts look, for example, hum. And he has admitted statements about his view of Mexicans rather than made public a question. 

I asked is, if The major Roman majority boomers were from Norway. If there were Caucasian, would you have taken that action to say rumours can't stay in the country? I nearly answer that question no, he would not have, and it's appropriate force. 

Look at the motivation behind any decision are made by anybody. By me, by business executive in by the present, he's gonna while those rules as well. Number 2, you go from third critical constitution issues like that right 2, but maybe more than mundane. 

But Ah, always risky to mention mythology, the administry procedure out to any audience who put him right to sleep, but i'g attempt on my last question here, so we have some got the ministry procedure when Barack Obama was President and Republican ages were challenging him left and right. Okay, on what are you done? He adopted a significant immigration policy that was challenged by ccane. 

The reason why President Obama's executive action on immigration to essentially expand it. I was struck down by the courts was not some big constitutional argument is because of a challenge on the sink of the administrative procedure act. Your casing present bomb has helped this challenge right? 

How that works. And when it is basically with my 10-year-old twins, if they're doing their mouth Howard, right, and they're doing fractions, or multiplication, there's white space to the right of their page, and that white space over there is a show, their work of how they got to that it. I know they can just pick up my iPhone and punched it in and write down the answer. 

They have to show their work on how they got that solution. Well, it's the same thing with the photograment they can change policies from preadministrations, but they have to show their work. They have a public comment day after analysis with the prone cons. 

What's the impact on businesses that we change protections for dreamers and businesses lose these dremors, as employees, there are steps, they must take the catch is unity wake up one days, you know what we don't like this anymore. And though that's an important principle, there's not arbitrary actions by the federal government has a huge impact on people in the country. And that is a specific act that they Violet over and over again, we think that's the case with receing protections for turkiyed. 

So you go from it might seem like the mundane, but we had these rules. For reason, it is going to follow 2 really poor conscial issues and all these cases you see a blending of these issues coming to the forum. And that's what I think you'll see what that dream cases we look forward as well. 

Thank you. Unfortunately, that's all we have time for today. But if you'd like to continue the conversation, please join us in a member's bar for a drink, but please join me in thanking, Bob Ferguson for joining yesterday.
