https://www.bobferguson.com/issues

special interests accountable when they don’t play by the rules, defends our civil rights, protects Washington’s environment and wildlife, and stands up for working families and the most vulnerable in our state.

Bob is leading the fight to ensure Washingtonians have access to safe abortions and the critical drug mifepristone. He championed the My Health, My Data Act into law – the strongest health data privacy protections in the country. When Donald Trump attacked contraception access, Bob took him to court and won. Bob led the legal fight to block President Trump’s family planning “gag rule.”  He is protecting the right to bodily autonomy and reproductive freedom.

Bob is holding wage theft violators accountable with both civil and criminal prosecutions. He is the first Washington attorney general to criminally prosecute wage theft. He passed legislation to ensure willful wage theft violators don’t receive government taxpayer contracts.

When Hanford workers started getting dangerously ill due to exposure to harmful vapors at the Hanford nuclear plant, Bob sued the Department of Energy to force greater protections for those workers. Bob also successfully defended Washington’s minimum wage and paid sick leave initiative against a legal challenge.

Bob stood up for workers at corporate franchises and increased wages by billions of dollars by eliminating illegal and unfair no-poach contracts nationwide.

In recognition for his efforts protecting workers, Bob Ferguson received the Washington State Labor Council Power of the People Award, the SEIU 775 Elected Official of the Year Award, and Metal Trades Honoree of the Year Award.

Bob formed the Wing Luke Civil Rights Division in the Washington Attorney General’s Office  – and it’s now the strongest civil rights division in the country fighting discrimination. He personally argued the Arlene’s Flowers case before the Washington State Supreme Court after a flower shop owner refused to sell flowers to a same-sex couple for their wedding. He won the case in a 9-0 decision, guaranteeing same-sex couples the same rights as opposite sex couples in the marketplace. Bob successfully stood up to illegal discrimination against pregnant individuals in the workplace, women agricultural workers facing sexual harassment, disabled veterans, and DREAMers.

Bob made consumer protection a cornerstone of the Attorney General’s Office – holding accountable powerful interests that don’t play by the rules. Bob quadrupled the size of the Consumer Protection Division in the Attorney General’s Office – at no cost to taxpayers! He took on several billion-dollar corporations that violated the law, and won hundreds of millions of dollars for the hardworking people of Washington.

As an avid backpacker and climber, Bob has a strong commitment to the protection of our state’s beautiful and unique environment. As Attorney General, Bob created the Environmental Protection Division. He won more than fifty convictions for crimes against the environment. Bob was the first attorney general to take on Monsanto Corporation for polluting waterways with PCBs, and won a major legal victory resulting in Monsanto paying nearly $100 million.

Bob successfully sued the federal government to force a speedier clean-up of the Hanford nuclear facility. He won multiple lawsuits against the Trump Administration to protect critical Obama-era climate change protections. He blocked Trump’s illegal attempt to gut the Endangered Species Act. On the final day of Trump’s presidency, Bob defeated and permanently blocked Trump’s “Dirty Power Plan.”

Bob passed legislation requiring all elected leaders in Washington state receive open government training. Bob passed legislation increasing the penalty for violating Washington’s Open Public Meetings Act.

Bob stood up to dark money and secured the largest campaign finance penalty of any kind in history against the Grocery Manufacturers Association, a group of multinational corporations that opposed Washington's GMO initiative with a massive dark money campaign. Bob then won an even larger penalty against Facebook for its intentional violations of Washington’s campaign finance law.

As Governor, Bob will not assert the executive privilege exemption to withhold public records. 

Bob comes from a family of veterans. Bob’s late father, Murray Ferguson, was a veteran, both his grandfathers were veterans, and many of his uncles served in World War II. Bob works to honor the service and sacrifice of our servicemembers and veterans. 

Bob has a team that connects Washington veterans, service members, and their immediate family members to free legal services. Bob strengthened consumer protections for veterans and military personnel – and vigorously enforces those protections. For example, he stopped tow companies that were illegally towing and selling vehicles belonging to servicemembers on active duty. He wrote and passed the bipartisan Pension Poacher Protection Act to protect the pensions of senior veterans.

Bob partners with AARP to provide fraud fighting tips for seniors across Washington state. Bob strengthened our state laws around financial exploitation of vulnerable adults and identity theft. In recognition for his work on behalf of seniors in Washington state, Bob Ferguson received the AARP 2016 Fraud Fighter of the Year Award and Washington Alliance for Retired Americans’ Education Fund 2017 Senior Champion Award. Since then, Bob partnered with the AARP to expand access to affordable hospital care for 4 million Washingtonians, including seniors on fixed incomes, and protect Washingtonians from utility shut-offs during heatwaves.

Bob kept nearly 100 of the most violent sex predators out of our communities. He is using innovative new tools to help law enforcement solve cold case homicides and sexual assaults. He wrote and passed bipartisan legislation to make our courthouses safer. He increased protections for survivors of human trafficking. He is working to end Washington’s shameful backlog of rape kits, because Bob believes these victims of sexual assault deserve justice.

Bob puts the public interest above partisan politics. Bob twice sued the Obama Administration over Hanford. He took the Biden Administration to court to increase access to abortion medication. He has filed legal challenges against both Democratic and Republican county party organizations. He refuses campaign contributions from large corporations.

Bob successfully defended the Affordable Care Act from the legal attack from the Trump Administration and Republican attorneys general. His Supreme Court victory preserved health care for 825,000 Washingtonians, including those with preexisting conditions. It also prevented painful increases in prescription drug costs for Washington seniors.

Bob then wrote and passed legislation that guaranteed 4 million Washingtonians access to free and reduced-cost hospital care. He’s also taking on health care monopolies that harm Washington patients.

Bob Ferguson partners with parents, educators, and school administrators to improve student safety. He built a coalition that included the Washington PTA and Washington Education Association to increase the tobacco and vape sale age to 21. Working with youth and student groups, Bob led the effort to combat mass shootings by banning the sale of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.

Bob is the most aggressive attorney general in the country when it comes to holding those who fueled the opioid epidemic accountable. He rejected national settlements and took the Sackler family and opioid distributors to court. As a result, he won $1.1 billion and counting that will go towards increased treatment in Washington and additional first responders to improve community safety.

Bob partners with Washington tribes to protect salmon and combat climate change, defend the Indian Child Welfare Act, protect tribal sovereignty from legal attacks waged by Republican attorneys general, addressing the crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous women, defend self-determination, combat the opioid epidemic, and maintain precious tribal records at the National Archives.

Standing up for the rule of law and American values, Bob successfully blocked – and eventually defeated – President Trump’s original travel ban. The Trump Administration ultimately decided not to appeal the first travel ban to the Supreme Court and agreed to reimburse Washington for its legal fees. Bob believes everyone is accountable to the law – including the President of the United States.

Ferguson’s legal record against the Trump Administration
Bob was the first leader in the nation to take on President Trump, blocking the first unconstitutional Muslim travel ban. Bob won that case and went on to defeat Trump more than 50 times in court on cases ranging from voting rights and gun responsibility to reproductive freedom.

Bob’s victories include:

Permanently defeating President Trump’s original Muslim Travel Ban that was significantly broader than the later version upheld by the Supreme Court;

Successfully blocking President Trump’s decision to rescind DACA, the federal program that protects DREAMers; and

Blocking President Trump’s plan to allow 3D-printed “ghost” gun plans to be legally disseminated on the internet.