https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuzYCjiWEd4

[Bob Ferguson]
Thank you to the moderators and the sponsors. Thank you, Congressman Riker. It's good to see you again.

And most importantly, to the Washingtonians who are joining us tonight. First, it's great to be back in Spokane, where I used to live and work just a few blocks away from here. And, look, Washington State is facing many challenges.

We'll talk about those tonight. Public safety. An opioid epidemic.

Washingtonians paying too much for their housing and their groceries. We need a governor who's a change agent. At the same time, a governor who will defend our core freedoms, like reproductive freedom.

I'm the only candidate in this race who rejects all campaign contributions from large corporations and corporate PACs. Why? Because I'm focused on Washingtonians.

As your Attorney General, I've taken on some of the biggest corporations in the world when they broke the rules and returned hundreds of millions of dollars back to Washingtonians. I'm the son of a special education public school teacher and a career Boeing employee. I know who I am.

I know who I'm fighting for. Each and every one of you.


[Bob Ferguson]
So I appreciate the question on small businesses and homelessness. Back in 1899 or 1900, my family created a business in Everett, Washington. It was a meat market.

And for multiple generations, that small business stayed in my family and served that community, served food, and created jobs through depression, through World Wars. So I care a great deal about making sure we grow our small businesses. Part of your question goes to homelessness.

The question here is the contrast in our respective plans. In contrast to my plan, Congressman Reichert has literally proposed repeatedly to send homeless individuals to McNeil Island, which is where we keep our sexually violent predators. How do I know that?

Because my team sends them to McNeil Island. That is a very unserious proposal for a very serious challenge. My team took on the biggest pharmaceutical companies in the world and held them accountable for fueling the opioid epidemic by not playing by the rules in pursuit of profits.

We've recovered a billion dollars, and I've insisted all that money be used for treatment, and that will help address the situation we're seeing and first responders as well.

[Bob Ferguson]
Thanks for that question. And just to respond to his last comment, I want to be clear. My office is the office that sends sexually violent predators to McNeil Island, Dave.

And just so we're clear, 38 out of 39 county prosecutors who have the authority to prosecute those cases specifically send them to my office. There's a reason why majority prosecutors endorse my campaign, but even the Republican prosecutors who endorse you send the cases regarding sexually violent predators to me and my team. Why?

Because they know we'll prosecute those cases to the fullest extent of the law. And look, on the question of the economy, I'm glad you're asking about this because this gets directly to a huge issue of the rising cost that we're facing from housing to groceries. As Attorney General, we've taken on entities that are engaging in price-fixing.

We returned recently more than $40 million to Washingtonians because tuna companies and chicken companies engaged in price-fixing. I recovered those dollars, and what did we do with it? Sent it right back to the pocketbooks of Washingtonians all across our state.

So we need... The other piece of this will be housing. In my first term as governor, we'll construct 200,000 units of housing, housing of all kinds.

You may not care where the homeless go, Dave, but I do. We need to make sure we have housing for those folks, market housing and affordable housing for workers that will help our economy, that will help our workforce. Mr. Rector, 60 seconds.

[Bob Ferguson]
The Tri-City Herald once wrote an editorial about the way I run my office, and they said, Ferguson runs his office like a business. We're actually a revenue generator for the state of Washington. That's what that legal team is doing, Dave.

And when it comes to the economy, as we transition to a clean energy economy, I visited East Wenatchee and went to an apprenticeship training program. Hundreds of workers across our state being trained there for a clean energy economy. That's how we can help get great jobs for workers all across our state.

We'll invest in more trainings just like that.
[Bob Ferguson]
So the percentage of our budget going to K-12 education has actually gone down in recent years. As governor, I'll change that. As a son of a schoolteacher, I know how important that is.

And that gets down to prioritization. Our budgets reflect our values when it comes to education. Look, one of us has experience in doing that.

When I was chair of the King County Council, I chaired the Budget Committee. I worked in a bipartisan way to adopt a budget that balanced our budget, had bipartisan support from politicians of a whole range of political stripes, and made the right investments for our county. Also, I'm not afraid of taking on big challenges in doing a budget.

I was a King County Council member, the only Democrat, who actually supported reducing the size of the King County Council. You know, the politicians. I reduced the politicians from 13 down to 9.

It cost me my job. I had to run again in the new district to stay on the King County Council. But I still support that.

Why? Because we need to be frugal with your tax dollars, we need to prioritize your tax dollars, and education will be an absolute key for me as governor. Mr. Riker, 30-second rebuttal.

[Bob Ferguson]
Thanks for that question. First, I do want to mention on education, what you just heard my opponent say, which is something that's important, is using a voucher system, taking public dollars, taking public dollars, taking public dollars away from our public education system and sending those public tax dollars to unaccountable private schools. That makes our budget problem much worse when it comes to funding our public schools.

Now on the North-South Freeway and, frankly, other key projects, right, Palouse to Cooley City, freight rail, right, the US-12 project down in the southeastern corner of the state, these are all key projects. On the other side of the mountains, right, the Columbia River crossing, all key projects. We have to continue moving forward on making sure we're making the investments in our infrastructure.

Why? It's good for our economy. It's good for farmers and growers to move their goods across the state and internationally as well.

So as a governor, you need a governor who can actually put those budgets together and do that in a thoughtful way. You're exactly right that that gas tax revenue will be decreasing as we electrify more vehicles. So, look, all options are going to have to be on the table for whoever the next governor is, but one thing I can assure you is I'll work in a bipartisan fashion because, guess what?

Republicans and Democrats care a great deal on making sure exactly those kind of projects on both sides of the mountains are completed on time. Mr. Riker, 60 seconds.


[Bob Ferguson]
And one thing I want to highlight is that you didn't mention this project that I referred to earlier, that Palouse to Cooley City, right? That is rail for wheat growers. That's rail for farmers to move those goods.

So the way I would view this as a governor, that's not some line on the budget, right? That is a project that's having an impact on businesses and our economy all across the state. So as a governor, you need to make sure you're seeing the people behind that and the business behind that in making our investment decisions.

That's why we'll fund those programs. And to the...

[Bob Ferguson]
Mr. Ferguson, 60 seconds. So Dave has a history in this campaign of saying one thing when he's before an audience like this and something very different when he thinks he's speaking behind closed doors. Dave, you were caught on audio denying that humans contribute to climate change.

If you don't believe me, go to reichertrevealed.com. It's actual audio. So here you sound very reasonable, but when you're behind closed doors, it's very different.

Look, we need a governor who actually understands and believes the science behind climate. That helps us with the right kind of investments. Look, in the Tri-Cities, Atlas Agro, this huge business is coming to the Tri-Cities.

It's a massive project. Hundreds and hundreds of jobs. Clean fertilizer.

That's the kind of investments we can make as a state. Not only is that good for clean air, not only is that good for clean water, it's also good for jobs. It's good for our economy.

And that, as a governor, is what my focus will be. Believe the science, follow the science, pay attention to jobs, and make sure we're building our economy while also taking care of our climate. Mr. Reichert, 30 seconds.

[Bob Ferguson]
First question to ask goes to Mr. Ferguson. Thank you, Dave. When the Seattle Times endorsed me over you in this campaign, they wrote about your views on reproductive freedom.

Specifically, they wrote you attended a meeting of an extreme anti-choice organization whose mission is to end abortions nationwide. The Seattle Times wrote about your response to a question at that meeting, and I'm quoting. Reichert responded by noting state law protected abortions.

And now they quote your response. But what we have to do now is work towards unraveling all that. Can you explain to the women of Washington State why you want to unravel reproductive freedom in our state?


[Bob Ferguson]
Thanks. Well, you can either believe Dave or believe the audio. And also, his record reflects his perspective of not defending reproductive freedom.

When you were back in Congress, Dave, you voted three times for a nationwide abortion ban that criminalizes doctors. You voted to make certain abortions that are illegal in Washington State, illegal, and criminalize doctors. You also, when you were back in Congress, voted time after time after time to defund Planned Parenthood.

Look, in a post-obs world where reproductive freedom is on the line all across our country, you have a choice. You can either elect a governor who has a history of defending your reproductive freedom, who's endorsed by Planned Parenthood, or someone who says, hey, believe him or believe the Seattle Times. KUW reported this story.

So I get that you want to deny it, Dave, but once again, you say one thing when you think you're behind closed doors and something else entirely when you're speaking to the people of the state of Washington and you're running for governor, you can't have it both ways. 30-second rebuttal.

[Bob Ferguson]
Thanks for that question. First, just on that previous question, hear carefully what he said. Almost exactly the same law, right?

He's acknowledging what he did back in Congress. Number two, look, my record when it comes to balanced budgets that are bipartisan is very clear. I was a budget chair at the King County Council.

Look, it's not the size of a state budget. I get that. But it's still a multi-billion dollar budget.

Democrats had a one-vote majority on the King County Council when I chaired the budget committees. How did we put that budget together? I'll tell you, Dave.

Two Democrats and two Republicans, we locked ourselves in a room for a couple weeks, and we hammered out the details of that budget and took it to the full council. Guess what happened? Strong bipartisan support from members of both parties to adopt a bipartisan budget.

Public safety, thanks for bringing that up. As attorney general, I work with local prosecutors. We've already covered sexually violent predators.

They send their cases to me there. Guess what else? As attorney general, I don't actually have the legal authority to prosecute a case if someone breaks into your car.

That's your local prosecutor. But we have a criminal division because prosecutors can ask my team to take a case if they have a conflict or lack the resources, for example, to bring a murder case. And guess what they do?

Both Republican prosecutors who endorsed my opponent and Democratic prosecutors who endorsed me, they send their toughest cases to me and my team. Why? Because they know, Dave, we'll use the rule of law to hold folks accountable and stand up for victims year after year, county after county, case after case.

You may want to belittle those hard-working folks. I value them. That is time.

That is time. Mr. Weigert, 60 seconds.



[Bob Ferguson]
Mr. Ferguson, 30-second rebuttal. So Washington State has per capita the lowest number of law enforcement officers of any state in the country. My criminal justice plan details how we're going to change that.

In my first budget as governor, we're going to put together a budget that invests $100 million. So local jurisdictions, your cities, your counties, the folks who hire most of the police officers across our state can use those dollars for increased salaries for signing bonuses. That gets first responders on the streets.

That helps solve crimes and lets the prosecutors in my team, in my office, do the work to send those folks away.

[Bob Ferguson]
Thank you very much. In traveling to all 39 counties during this campaign, I've had a chance to listen to folks all across the state, including small business owners. One thing I've heard is, hey, sometimes we need to streamline our government on behalf of whether it's small businesses or anybody else.

One thing I've pledged to do as a governor is to do exactly that. If you apply for a permit, for example, with Washington state government and we're late in delivering that permit, you're not paying for it. We're not going to make you go to different places to get that permit.

Streamline it, one-stop shopping. When it comes to small businesses, I've talked about my commitment on small businesses, but I've demonstrated that in the past. When I was on the King County Council, I worked with a conservative Republican to do what?

To literally go through the King County Code and make sure we're literally tearing out pages and pages and pages of our King County Code. Why were we doing that? Because there are regulations in there, to this individual's question, that were just burdensome on businesses and serve no useful purpose.

The mandates no longer made sense in light of time or the change of business climate. That's the approach we need as a governor, someone who can work in a bipartisan way.

[Bob Ferguson]
Thanks. Well, we've been listening to business in the AG's office. I created a small business initiative within the office of the Attorney General.

What does that unit do? Advocate for small businesses when they're the target of scams. Look, if you're a small business owner, you don't have some in-house counsel down the hallway.

If you get a letter in the mail saying you need a certain kind of poster to put up in your restaurant, you think it's legit, it looks legit, you pay the fee and you move on. Guess what? My team, as part of that initiative, Dave, took on the scammers.

Yes, it was a lawsuit. Took on a company not playing by the rules, harming small businesses, making them pay millions of dollars. We took that entity to court and guess what?

A judge ordered them to pay those small businesses back millions of dollars. How do I know this? I've been to every Rotary Club in the state.

When I go there, I hear from small business owners who thank me and my team for doing that work on behalf of small businesses, and that's the approach I'll take as your governor. 

[Bob Ferguson]
The high cost of housing is one of the most critical crises we're facing as a state. So, multiple things. Number one, I mentioned earlier, we need more inventory.

I put it right in my voters pamphlet statement for my vision for the state, constructing 200,000 units of new housing, housing of all kinds, in my first term as governor. As attorney general, we recently took on another lawsuit, Dave, standing up for Washingtonians, an entity that's engaging in price fixing on rent. Artificially raising rents and making Washingtonians all across our state pay more.

That violates the law and harms Washingtonians and goes exactly what Austin's getting at. Higher rents. That's unacceptable.

So look, I'm open to proposals that address exorbitant hikes. Look, the good news is, most landlords don't want to do that. They want to play by the rules, but we need to make sure that we have a housing market that works for all Washingtonians.

One more thing I'll say on housing, which was a key part of your question. Housing is buried in the bureaucracy of state government. The head of housing is buried in commerce.

I'm going to pull that person out and that team out, and guess what? The head of housing is going to be a member of my cabinet. So every time I have a cabinet meeting, I'm getting an update to Austin in real time about how we're doing on addressing the affordable housing crisis that we have in the state and making sure we're working in public-private partnerships to address this key issue.

You mentioned words, Dave, about treating everybody with dignity and respect, and I just can't help but point out that, once again, on audio, in a meeting in which you were behind closed doors, but now you can listen to on RykerRevealed.com, you expressed your opposition to marriage equality. You said marriage is only between a man and a woman, and I'm sorry, but that stings for our LGBTQ Washingtonians, and I want those individuals to know that they have a choice of a governor who supports their freedom to marry the person they love, just like I could marry my wife, Colleen. I defend that freedom.

[Bob Ferguson]
Sure, I'll just take my 30 seconds. You mentioned Value Village. It's true, we lost that case.

It's literally, Dave, the one case we've brought on behalf of Washingtonians that we lost. We've won 700 or 800. And those are cases that have returned literally hundreds of millions of dollars back in the pockets of Washingtonians.

We've also had debt relieved for millions and millions of Washingtonians, totaling a billion dollars. That's the work my team does every single day to do what? To stand up for everyday Washingtonians.



