https://www.youtube.com/live/p-E533V4cco

LIVE: 2 candidates named Bob Ferguson join WA governor's race by KOMO News

we're good morning, thank you so much for joining us here today. Um, for this press coverage. We really appreciate it, I'm just mind my name's bot Ferguson. 

I'm the Attorney General running for governor I just appreciate all the supporters who turned down a very short notice here today, we're start the press conference with dense ceberg, the former kencounty prosecutor for many years. As you know, and I had the great pleasure in honour to get to no one else to around the kind of council at the same time as he was serving as her crossing attorney. We're also driving whether wonderful legislators Noel frame appreciate herbing here as well. 

How then we turn over to Dan sabre. He'll speak, I will follow down the hy. Few comments and then we'll look to questions and dinner. 

I'll be happy to answering any questions that you might have. But first I really appreciate d*** being here and sang a few words, thanks down to. 

Thank you. Good morning, I am down sadder goes with the kind of crossing attorney elected from 19 2007 till at the end of 2022 37 year career there. I'm here put on a soup tie to come out today because I'm really offended word, what's happened? 

I've known about this bar proxon for 20 years, and as a council member and Intel, he worked very hard to develop reputation for public integrity and for accomplishment. And yet, if something doesn't happen today. Washington voters will have a one out of 3 chance to vote for the real bar proves. 

What happened here is we all kind of laugh out. It was a prank, it was a meme, but it's not funny and it's also a crime, and that's the main thing that we want to say today. This statute here, Australia don't be twentynine. 

8432, it has been on the lot has been on the books in the state of washing for 80 years passed 1943 back before we had social media back before we knew any of this, but the legislator was at that time in the 1943 session knew that their reputation could be diluted could be stolen. That fright could happen to them. If somebody had a name that was similar to theirs and appeared on the ballot, they didn't have the kind of immediate response that we have here today to this sort of fraud. 

But if it seems wrong, you should be able to do this it is because it is wrong and it's a crime now. I suspect that the 2 other Barbie. Emissions that were, but were duped into putting their name on to the ballot didn't know and weren't told that this is a class. 

B felony across B felony has a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and subsection. 4 here seems like it was written for today, if there's a sur name that is similar to one Who was already filed for the same office whose political reputation is widely known with intent to confuse clearly. This is to confuse and mislead the electors by capitalising on the public reputation of the candidate who has previously filed, who has been the attorneygeneral for 12 years, has been on kind council for 8. 

Years before that these other Bob fergusons, I don't know them, but I know they don't have any reputation. They never served to help public office, and I suspect that they weren't told. Now that this little p**** was a class b found here that could land them in prison. 

Now, so these are fake candidates. The idea was to dilute support for the real candidate, it's not k, and it's wrong and it's a crime. And it has been for the last 8 decades. 

So there's 3 things we're asking for, number one. We're asking other Bob fergusons to withdraw their candidacy, they can do that by the end of the day, fact, they have to do that by the end of the day, but you can go on the secretary state website. Couple clicks and you're done and this is over, but if it's not. 

Over if they don't do that, we're calling on, let the law enforcement, probably Thurston County, as worthy. It was were the jurisdiction, as well as for the secretary stages and where the filings happen to investigate this and look at this law recalling and the prosecutor through Canada also investigate and look. At this law and And because we can't let this go, we can't normalise this. 

We can't just have a good laugh at this and say this is okay, because it's not inspits vandalism to the ballot. It's a crime against the state of Washington and integrity of the election is a theft of the real Bob Ferguson's reputation and name and finally, I call on the leaders of the party. Both parties in this state to denounce this conduct, we can't say this is okay. 

Nobody should be enjoying this moment, any serious candidate for any serious office? Understand that me too could be the victim of such a fraud. And so everybody who is concerned about the integrity of elections in the state of washing, it should denounce. 

This should be no one who says this is okay or support, so it's a serious matter, it's not funny and it's really designed to confuse all of us when we get our ballot, and there's 30 people on the ballot in August for the couplitorial primary 3 of their named Bob Ferguson. People around the seat are gonna say, how did we let this happen? And I'm here to say that we shouldn't let this happen without a turn over to our next governor Bob race. 

Thank you very much to never be here. I appreciate it on Friday afternoon, it was beautiful day, I was no Seattle. Ah, watching data computer track me, it was a great day and that's why starting his reports that 2 other Bob fergusons were filing for governor at the 11 hour before the close of the filing deadline. 

Look, it's clear what's going on. Anti-democracy Republicans orchestrated a deceptive of any legal scheme to deceive voters and illegally influenced the election. a right-wing Republican Glen Morgan done well to many of you. 

I suspect recruit to other men named Robert Ferguson to file for governor as boxers. Both filed as Democrats, we already know, just for this weekend that one of those 2 men has voted as Republican and Republican presidential primaries, renewed Glenn Morgan, who recently awarded the volunteer of the year by the state Republican party. Their goal is clear to mislead voters. 

And split my supporters 3 ways to depress my boat. Total, it keep me from moving in to the top 2 in the general election. But won't be very clear this is not an attack on me. 

It's an attack on our election system. It's attack on our democracy, it's attack on the people say to Washington to have a clear choice. And to know who they're voting for so tomorrow, what we know about this conspiracy to fraud borders number 2, the next steps. 

But the campaign is seeking to address this attack on honour election integrity M3I took a few thoughts, I want to share about Dave racker and his silence in response to this development. So there are 2 other Robert Ferguson goodfiled. What is from yakkama? 

Robert Arthur Ferguson is from Yama, the others from Graham Washington, Robert Benjamin, both are registers, both filed late Friday. As you know, they both filed literally within minutes each other for governor they both had the same u ps office and olympiain, in which they filed, and they both have the same. Campaign manager that's planet Morgan, the volunteer. 

The year from the state Republic party was recently on a pale discussion of Jim watch state Republic, chairman just last month and again Glen mortga's politics are well-known to any beautiful local politics. Robert Ferguson from myakamas, the individual bone Republican primars, the Robert Ferguson from Graham Washington on his wife, social media account. She refers to miss as Robert Ferguson, not Bob Ferguson. 

It is obvious what is going on her. The dance walk through the wall. So I'm not gonna repeat that, but I do want to talk about though is what we is a campaigner doing to address this serious situation so first season assists, letters were hand delivered to the homes of the 2 others Robert Ferguson yesterday, urging them to withdraw by the deadline today, 5 o'clock. 

And mention that design there is still time for these 2 individuals do the right bank. I agree with them that these 2 individuals must have received phonically bad advice to engage in this activity. 

Now daddy arrow is so easy. 

AI built me a website in minutes. They'll household. He'll pass of aggressive opinions, no home building jeers, it's a dream. 

Unlike working with this nightmare, this is really can help my business probably save friendship. 

I think well makes going back to school easy. We deliver an education that takes your child beyond the classroom with interactive curriculum, innovative technology and personalised learning tailored to your child's needs. Forget the stress of shopping, we send you everything you need to start the school. 

You're off right, just open the door open the box and open up your hold. 12, enrol today. 

They always dance, facing significant criminal and civil jeopardy. I reviewed them. I expect they did not know about the legal complications of their action when they gave glimported permission to file their names for office, but now they know the good news is Stilla connerates. 

The possibility to withdraw your name after final and that deadline is today at 5 o'clock. If they do not withdraw by 5 oxday, they may not have the opportunity withdraw later, even to avoid criminal prosecution. I want to be very clear about this next point I do not want these 2 individuals be prosecuted, I hope no, it will to these 2 individuals. 

I really don't my sincere hope that they recognise the serious of what's happened and went rather names by 5 o'clock. And we put this whole business behind us and move on the back of the campaign in the different style date that's my sincere help, if they do not do the right thing and they are surely aware of this crisi. Legal applications will have no choice but to take more serious steps and ask local prosecutors to do the right thing and pursue further action. 

We are today sending a letter to the secretary state sector safe harms to take specific steps to minimise the deception, if these 2 individuals do not withdraw their names so the secondary state will have been too bargain, the legality of the sectors brought. Brad Ethan Loire to minimise voter confusion in a situation just like this, whether, but there's more than one candidate who have a similar name. So this is kind of plaited by the lot. 

The secretary sea has a delined tomorrow of putting forth the ballot as it will, as it will appear the order the names. You get the idea so today. The campaign is sitting alert to the secretary state because of the law allows for the public to communicate the texts, state their ideas, how to minimise border confusion. 

So we're asking for 3 things. A letter that would make the public very surely I think we're doing just a final approid of it will be public very soon for those for hear from the media. So number one we're asking secretary state to include the can occupations next to the 3 1st, this is a type thing that's specifically called out understate law as a way to minimise confusion for me. 

Obviously my tailors Attorney General, we'll be asking about it'd be but Ferguson. Attorneygeneral and then include their occupations as well. Number 2, we're asking about the secretary seat, have these other 2. 

Robert Ferguson, listed as Robert Ferguson with their middle initial or possibly their middle name as well. So, I'll be doing Bob Ferguson on about number 3, and especially important, there's too put the 3 Ferguson candidates together on the bout. In other words, right now, after the drawing of stras on Friday afternoon, why these bot froaks, we'p your second on the ballot, the other will pull third on the ballot, and I appear number 13 on the bound, like anyone who has any knowledge of campaigns knows that in a ballot with 30 names as Dan mentioned. 

All sorts of studies show that many voters don't get pass the first few names and what I would see is the ball order remains unchanged. There is no question that thousands of Washington's, we'll think they're voting for me and they'll be voting from these other 2 individuals. That's just a fact. 

That is going to happen only questions how many thousands and how many voters will essentially be disenfranchised surrohouse from the secretary state either move my name up. Second, essentially above those 2 war. Move them down, follow me, either way. 

I'm going after the spot, right? But the 3 names should be together, so any voter, we'll see, wait a second. There's 3 Fergus this year, something's going on. 

And it's not easy to think that Hey, we have a lot of metre. I still appreciate being here that surely folks would be aware, but people are busy when comes to voting. They have their lives to live, right? 

They have jobs that they need to do. They have kids, they got lot going on and we cannot afford to have focus confused about which individual they're voting for especially perception or an office. Now, I seems might wanna say a couple of things about breaker, right? 

I think Dani called on other individuals and the parties to say something. So obviously Friday, afternoon worse, a little bit chaotic, as you might imagine if I was fronting video, my daughter running a 100 metres in 2 metres and deal, what was going on? And so the teams having a lot of conversations a lot. 

Text messages were flying around now. Some points on the team house. Do you think Dave rake's going to say about this? 

I'll be profits with you, I said, I have no doubt the Dave write will issue a statement in a matter of hours denounce. I have no doubt about that. This is so beyond the pale, so unacceptable such a violation of election integrity at the bare minimum. 

It's an issue, a statement saying, this is wrong and telling these 2 individuals to a thrila. Look, it's happen 3 days, he has not uttered a word about this. A man who seems to care about enforcing the law talks lot about on the campaign trail. 

He seems only care about enforce the law. In some situations, here's a minor someone is violating a criminal law, if it benefits him politically, I'm sorry, and we have national threats to our elections, we have threats to our democracy. This is a threat to our election system. 

And for gods fakes, if you can have a decency. And the most basic sense of fair play to under the words. This is unacceptable and call upon the Republican party and these individuals withdraw, it speaks volumes about him. 

Um in reveals, he lacks the political club courage to be the governor of the state a last thing, or says agrippled, back to far from here. But my late mother and father, they were proud Republicans. Okay, one of Dan evage's first events. 

When he ran for governor is unknown state legislator 1963 was at my parents house. The first second coffee. Today I was supporters in my parents house, they were PO. 

I'm proud that I have. Or Spanish, from down Evans to my father note, my dad kept up organising volunteers knocking on doors from the yard Sin 4 dead Evans. My dead mom were deeply involved in Dene's campaign back when he was a political unknown. 

That is now my mom and dad's Republican, the party right now it is sad the Republican party? Can not denounce what is going on? It is sad that they're leading canned at their standardbear for office cannot muster. 

The political will to say this is a final attack on the election system so I just want to expect any writer to do the right thing, but I do think it's worth noting as a very sad commentary on the state of Republican party. That this while we've come too. I still appreciate all been here, we get this forests were here as well. 

And then, of course, are you been here and then are happy to answer any questions that and you may have, so we'll just hope it up. 

What exactly about socialism? Do you have created? 

Um, like the 100, an 30 million people that died under socialism in the last 100 years, are the fact that every country that engages in a socialist direction, it becomes less free, less prosperous. 

Do you think that maybe there's like a middle ground where you can have a little bit of both? 

Everything comes at a price. The states that are the most socialisticor the worst and hardest states to live in this country. California have the most people leaving highest taxes or social benefits most social welfare, either leaving for states that are freer with lower taxism or economic freedoms. 

Everything comes at a price. Thank you. Appreciate. 

Thanks for a time. 

Do we have any questions? Mitchell pathogens could be helpful Int. 

What about? 

Yeah, so or so well, this should be a question breaking here. So the questions, what about when morgain, in terms of being able look, it is clearer that criminal and civil laws. Can I play to him, um, we will cross that bridge when we get to with Morgan, what we're focused on right now is something very simple. 

There's a deadline today. 5 o'clock. For these 2 individuals to do the right thing. 

I agree with Dan. I think these books were duped into this okay, I've no real will Em. I do not want to prosecuted right now. 

The focus of what we're trying to communicate is for those individuals to a drop at 5 o'clock? If they do that, and by the way, I want to be very clear if they do that, I'll be very clear publicly that they should not be prosecuted. Okay, if anyone starts investigation, I'll communicate them. 

I do not want them prosecutor I do not want them investing. They do the right thing by 5 o'clock but be very clear about them when more gets a different conversation for different time. He's just not my focus right now. 

Now I know what if they've all spend the final fee at their own money, they legitimately want to get into elections and want to run for this office. This could be 2 guys who will become tru. 

Want to do it? Yeah, we know that's true, right? Because I believe in some crack, everyone I believe Glen Morgan already acknowledged in the press that he raised the money for their filing fix. 

But that was painful. That was already done, so cheer point, no like this is a scheme. What gives trade by Morgan? 

There's no doubt about that, and you know, I don't have to say. So a good Morgan even said in the press, he tried to group more, but for guest to run, I mean, like respectfully, give me a break, right? Everybody knows what's going on here, everybody knows what's going on. 

Here is no ambiguty, and it's right. When this all happened like literally, the checks is a long around this. You know, when arthuman life as a lawyer, you know, when you try to apply the facts last night as well as always match up exactly to something you know doesn't seem quite right. 

Honestly, it seemed like the slow was literally written for the situation. Truly, I means it's been around for decades. And so it is obvious what's going on. 

And so, um, we just hope they do the right thing, what's your campaign? 

And that the other 2 Bub practices would resume fish into the Butters. Has anyone looking this pay for this crisi? 

Secondly, think what we know about the other troublokes and what they know. Um, what I know is that 2 seizes letters or left on the front porch. Yesterday that I know whether they po read those, I don't know the answer that right, but I know those were, and this was just really, we just want them to know. 

Break. Um, I really do believe they were probably ignoring up this one I really believe afternoon, I don't know that, but I believe that to be true, I just can't believe at any individual there wants to expose themselves to this kind of expert with legal sanction and um, so I'm not aware of anything else, and what they've said about is famous from them. How it's my senic gln Morgan is saying early to go through him and he's going to make public. 

Comments, so I'm not aware of any Any Aussie step, the Mediterranean culture has happened by over the physical manifestos. God, I will get. Hello, it's it's it's a for dancing. 

He's not aware of it. I certainly not aware of it of a political jockey, right? Um, you know all campaigns I read about campaigns locally nationally, you know. 

It's look for my life, right? And I have to say, I'm not aware of antibing, removely some of this for an office of this magnitude to have multiple people with the same name filing at the same party at the last minute. Next s, so obviously orchestrated in fact, clemorgan admits orchestrating. 

He just wishes to get more Bob Ferguson and Reducial attitude is also that I hope they do the right thing. If they do not, I'm be clear the sector estate has a duty here to act. He has a lot of discretion, he'd deliver, you can take the steps we outlined. 

And I'm sorry, Steve Harve has a duty. Here is if he does not take the steps we've outline. This will be the new normal in your politics. 

Take it to the bank. Okay, next time there's major election, you can absolutely expect multiple names to appear on the ballot and the same political party right. That's what's going to happen and so I'll be very clear. 

The sectors needs to take all through those actions, including changing the ballot order, which I think is absolutely critical and aptly fundamental to lease get voters are fighting chance to realise wow, something's going on here and I need to dig a bit further and figure out which are these focuses. I wonderful for. 

Others were not related to our actions where you are off. 

Really that sure, but I'll forgive a try anyway. 

You're a distinguished alone at the university of Washington, you're the top prosecutor or the state you want to be the governor do you know what's going out of you do or the last couple weeks, if you're elected governor what would you do to find a solution, make everyone? 

We haven't had. This summit will have a very specific focus here. Writing says, as a graduate. 

our students have the absolute ripe to attend classes safely and experience a campus environment safely, that's fundamental. Now, I know that has to be enforced. And so we have to have this further conversation with you about other details, but right now, our focuses. 

Very clear, right on what's in front of us, and that is, you know, the fundameals of our voting system, which is secret to us as Americans as Washington and I want a goodbye for being here, have a chat afforwards, you have additional questions. Um, but I hope these 2 people do the right thing. I hope to break and find it with himself. 

Get the most basic level of decency in fair play. I mean understand we were political differences, but I know at a certain level. He was a certain kind of man. 

I really did believe bad about him, but he has revealed himself becoming very different, and it is sad. I'm looking forward to beating the breaker. Do we care about this? 

And nah? MI true chronicia. Have you been here? 

Thanks, everybody. Thank you so much, vilificant down or images. The ecological we are without there, let's do it over here, maybe right? 

We're gonna whip in the bodia. Thank you guys for sure 

they're poor better or at the reach or to rolled at the very 64. 

What gives money if I did anyone? However, the full capabilities trying to get their own? 

Alright, how about it feeling? Stuck feels bad. Why you're feeling strong in crunch feels going form, stuck. 

Bad cried, good. 

Archaeological. 

Not that bad, I'll sweat good. 

It's real bad. 

Wait, good, start that good crunch. Good, so feel good, not bad. 

Aha, enjoy practiveness. 

What's today?
