The winner for a decade. 

Why now it's only been a year kind of only year. Others put motivations on people. That's never been my thing so but obviously, once governor rinsley decided not to seek a fourth turn, you know, it became clear to me if I was going to run for governor obviously this was the time to think of that, so yeah. 

As I told you, we've got a whole campaign here on Como 4 for 24, there are 4 candidates that seem to be the big 4 when it comes to the governor's race. But for you personally, what are your 4 top priorities in 2020? 

Yeah, so number one. The first thing I think we knew is the state has changed the whole state bureaucracy to make sure we're centering the people and the decisions we make and to solve our products. So there's a zillion issues, right, but no particular order, I take public safety. 

The first plan we rolled out as a campaign first detailed plan that any candidate put out was on public safety. Focusing on things like I talk about in here to our support disliberty air, which, if we rank glass per capita Washington State does a number of law enforcement officers we have, but that's unacceptable. I've got a plan to address them. 

Look forward to seeing our other candidates, what their plans are on that number 2 homelessness, which gets into a whole range of complex issues as you and your viewers note got mental health issues, you've got chemical dependency issues. You've got affordability issues, all that come into that umbrella of homelessness and so as a governor working with local jurisdictions, to make sure or address, Matt will be key affordability. Again, I've been to all 39 counties. 

The issue I heard the most in alternative counties were the cost of Houston it. How's jurisdiction, after jurisdiction, we need to be investing and more housing, we need to build a million new units of housing in the next 15 to 20 years, and as the governor I'll be very focused on that, so, the combination of all those issues will be Central to my time as governor and one more. I'll add is, I'm not sure I'm going to report on my number 5 but low more. 

I'll add is I think it's a state we need to prepare for the potential of the Donald Trump presidency and will lead every governor who stands up with the rights of Paul Washington's I have done that, my opponents have not, and there's a clear contrast misprays on that issue. 

So I heard homelessness, public safety housing 

A fed, no epidemic with mental health issues. All those combined together for multiple issues that our state is facing come up. I always has say on Hey with a top 3 top 2 top 4, because we haven't talked about education like I'm the son of my mom's passed away, not too long ago, she was a public school special education teacher. 

But the challenges we have with our education system generally and some of those specific areas like special education are profound. The number of kids in our state with special needs and the kids. My mom was working with year after year after year and talking about it over the dinner table with me and my siblings, those challenges are significant. 

The actual physical structure upper school, I was in Republic, Washington, I toured all 39 counties, but the folks in the Republic want to talk about was the lack of the structures, the actual infrastructure for their schools and how they need new buildings for the kids in their jurisdiction. So there are multiple challenges we have as a state, but I think what we need as a governor as a change agent, someone who's demonstrating ability to go in and shake things up, I've certainly done that in Iran, but thinking council certainly done that as an Attorney General, and I don't plan on changing that 

Okay, so there might be a change agent needed when it comes to homelessness. Washington State, as you know, Hud in their latest point in time counts, as Washington State has the fourth, most people living unsheltered homeless people of any state in the nation. There's been a lot of issues with state right of ways, the state has made some progress there, but it's still a problem. 

These are areas where there's a lot of encampments, a lot of crime that's been associated with them. So what's the big idea. How do you fix homelessness? 

When I talk to folks all across the state is, you know, as Attorney General, I could see a problem. I could file a lawsuit and often get a decision from a judge in a matter of weeks. That stopped that problem, right. 

I'm aware that being governor is a different kind of job issues like homelessness, the fennel epidemic right? Public safety, these are challenging issues. You're not going to solve them overnight, but I think what we need is a change in approach from the state perspective, someone comes in as a change agent, and it's going to focus on these issues. 

So when it comes to homelessness when I was on king, kind of council, I spent a night and emerged a shelter went in spent the night there. Get a feel for what's going on at the ground level. People buy those services, folks who are staying in those emergency services Utilizing those emergency services as a governor we need to make sure we're working to address in the underlying causes of homelessness update Riker, he has said he would take the gun housed and send them to meet new Ohio. 

That's really keep our sexually violent predators. I know that because my team sends those folks there. I'm sorry that's not a serious solution. 

To an issue a serious homelessness or use our investments that are smart, that get folks in temporary housing, get them off the streets, get them the wraparound services that they need to address the underlying issues that are claim the situation in which they're homeless. We've talked about those mental health chemical dependency. Housing affordability. 

But the good news of this is Attorney General I've addressed those. My teams bribe more than a billion dollars from the ulkyo epidemic, taking on the largest corporations in the world. I'm insisting that every one of those dollars be used in jurisdictions all around the state for more treatment for more first responders, to help, that's what we need smart investments to help folks who are on the streets, not saying that to McNeil island like daybreak group, wants to me. 

What's the barometer of success? Then if you're talking about spending more money on treatment and spending more money on homelessness and spending more money on public safety? I mean, what's the what would a Ferguson administration barometer of success be in that first year. 

Making progress on all those issues, reducing the number of individuals who are homeless in our state, making our communities more safe, hiring more law enforcement offices. Again, my plan is clear, put $100 million into my first budget, so local jurisdictions, you can use those resources as hiring bonuses for law enforcement officers or foreign. Pressalaries, they've Riker, deposes that for reasons I don't understand I think we need more resources to hire more officers. 

We're all across our state, so that's each issue is a little bit different, I think first and how you measure that when it comes to a number of law enforcement officers as a number where you quantify that all across the state and so I'll be focused on that when it comes to our ferry service. We're offering a 50% capacity in a very serious look. I talk about ferry service. 

You're in there as mayor if I'm in Sia, I talked about Tacoma. Yesterday, we are failing folks and island communities. When comes to our ferry service, we need to center those people in the stations, we make and trade like the prices. 

It is so progress. There is increasing the number of rounds increasing the number of ferries so in each of these issues, okay. In my 20 years in politics, I don't think englands, I've ever said that not someone who goes in trying to change things that's been my approach from day one on the county council and day 1 is Attorney General not a big and the status quo, and we have real challenges at stake. 

I plan on leaning into those challenges. 

So, you know this that mark Mueller and others have pointed out independents and Republicans, in particular that you wanted to decriminalize drugs in 2021 that you wanted to eliminate the criminal penalties for non-commercial possession, Oregon, did it? It was chaotic. Do you still believe that Washington should do oh no. 

So look, I long ago said that should not be your approach and you're at Oregon or is an organ pass it like a 55 or 56% will vote. And there are lessons we learn from them, right? It seemed to the folks of Oregon now is a good idea, clearly did not work, but I'm proud that to be clear. 

I've always supported criminal penalties for dealers. Always, we're going after companies that fuel our opec epidemic, we talked about that earlier, making sure that folks aren't using open use of drugs on our streets. And I'm proud that the money we've brought in from those cases for a treatment, were critical in the legislature. 

Recently passing legislation that criminalized, that conduct and many legislators said. Hey, we want to see the treatment as well. Right, I'm going to cross our way out of this. 

We need to have treatment for folks as well, and a $1.3 billion that my team has brought to the state. It's going to be a play, a huge role in making sure we address that in the right way is a public health issue as well, right? Folks can be held accountable for their actions, but would also I get close to treatment, otherwise for something recycling plus businesses. 

But you do not want to decriminalize drugs anymore. 

I support the lipstater's actions long ago to take that action. That's been public. That's been out there for a long time I get that one of my opponents who's polling at 4% wants to relitigate things in the past, you know, when Lamar needs to be accountable for his vote to win a police pursuits. 

And I think that was a bad idea, you know, he took a bad vote on that mark. Mark took a bad vote on a bill. I proposed for women's reproductive rights, which was, if you're a woman in Washington State support this law proposed past. 

Let's say, use and Pat to trap your period It's very common nowadays, well, unfortunately, a lot used to be that whoever had that app could sell that information sell to somebody or to a prosecutor another state, for example, so that really endangers women of Washington State. I proposed a law that said to no, that information is private, just like if you go to a doctor. But they can't sell off that information, only one Democrat in the entire legislature voted against that piece of legislation that was mark Mueller flying Martinez, to worry about his own votes on issues of reproductive freedom on privacy and on police persists even 

I'm quiet on some of these initiatives. 3 of which were settled by the legislature, including the police pursuing. 

I'm opposed, all, oh, I've been. I'm not sure what we were listening to. I've been clear on those 3 issues for a long time we're talking to reporters talking at events. 

I've been very clear, all 3 of those, yet so guys, I want to be clear, not been silent at all, been very clear about that. 

Okay, so when mullet and others accuse you of being soft on crime or soft on crime. 

I mean, look, is to be clear, look, I understand you know, if mark's pulling it literally 4%. I mean, he's got $12000 to spend on the primary, I'm not worried about mark mullet, a books on Dave riper. I look forward to a public safety conversation with Dave writer, I'm proud of my record as an Attorney General, we have a criminal division We handle the sexually violent creditor cases for 38 after 39 counties, some county house among the realm every other prosecutor in Washington State, Democrat and Republican on the most serious offenders we have as a statement, I can trust my team and me handle those cases in 38 out of 39 counties. 

We handled the most serious offenses and jurisdictions all across the state again, prosters of both political parties. I asked my team to take on the jurisdiction of those cases, because they know we'll handle this case in a way that stands app for victims and stands app for accountability, and I'm looking forward to a conversation with Dave for I create about public safety, if you were proud of our record on that and look forward to a debate about that. 

Also a conversation about public safety. I brought this up to you last week, your distinguished alumni at the university of Washington, there has been an encampment there that people have been worried about. There are some of those same protesters likely involved in shutting down the ifiv as well, and this is something that people across the political spectrum have been upset about the idea of it. 

The freeway was blocked for several hours. The encampment has been set up for several weeks. If you're governor when do you get involved in that. 

Well, let's take the freeway, for example, if we're causing a photograph of that protest where there was an emergency vehicle that was stopped in its tracks because of the protests. So as a governor you're involved immune, something like that, are utilizing the powers you have with state troopers as appropriate. Let's utilize that resource to make sure that if that's being clear that folks can use their freeways or access seatech airport, or obviously, on a campus, all students should, as we've talked about, the poor people to navigate their way to their classes, unimpeded and not being grasped and so as a governor all those issues are ones that are The type of crisis that comes up or governor is going to be called upon daky mu and to be engaged immediately, and I look forward as governor daling exactly that way. 

Should the u dub have I jumped in earlier to avoid some of the graffiti and the damage to the buildings before it went too far? Should would you have encouraged the university of Washington President to do something earlier than she did? 

I mean, President Kelsey had a tough situation on her hands. Let's be clear about that. And into her credit, some of the last news reports I've seen, they've worked out in understanding both the students took figure the encampment and to bring back things to a sense of normalcy on the campus, and I think it's easy to guess somebody who's facing a very, very challenging situation. 

But I think, you know, she deserves some credit for hailing that way, telling that difficult situation in a way that looks like it's going to reach a peaceflocom, the vandalism to the hub, or you know, I was a student and to buildings that's unacceptable. And I think it's appropriate now that that's been clear, it's done. 

What do you think about that agreement? That's been worked out between the protesters and the 

Universe, I'm not seeing the details, I saw the headlines on an article. It sounds like there's an agreement or the camp's going to be cleared. And the university is going to work with the students on some issues that the students have obvious concerns about again, I'm not. 

I've gone in the details of that, but I am glad that's being resolved in a way that has largely been peaceful. With that said, I'm speaking to a sporter here who's deeply concerned about the anti-semitism for example, that's been clearly evidence at camp is all across this country, you know, one thing I've talked about, is, you know, my public safety plan. I talk about a type. 

8 crimes team support formula in our office, but to expand that pave. Riker doesn't have that in his panel. What's up with that. 

Jasper, you know, it's easy to put a tweet out there, but let's actually address this, right, if folks are engaging that kind of hate speech that is criminal. We need resources to do it. I've leaned into that somebody you together, let's prosecute those cases, let's told people accountable. 

That's how you prevent that going forward is where people realize there's accountability. Local prosecutors have challenges, they got a lot of cases on their plate, right? Having a unit down in the ag's office will go a long way to addressing that kind of h speech that has no place in Washington c, so it comes 

A couple of the plans you've already put on your website $100 million in grants, for years, additional troopers in local law enforcement agencies. How is that supposed to work? I mean, we've seen a shortage across the country of people who actually want to be in-law enforcement, we've seen a shortage in the state patrol, a shortaging in the Seattle police department. 

In particular, so how is this supposed to change the course of staffing at least parties? 

It will change by adding additional resources to salaried sign bonuses to attract individuals to come to washing state or to pursue going into law enforcement because they realize, Hey, there's additional salary. There's more resources for that. That helps me afford a house that helps me afford my grocery strike eyeing that is natural, why Dave reichertz owes that you'd have to ask him, but we've seen other governors across the state. 

To take precisely that step Democrats and Republicans, that makes sense to me, you know, we think, as a state, we want to make sure we are providing a fair wage and a good wage for folks who do the most important work educators, apple law enforcement. And I think when you have a crisis as we do with the lack of work, law enforcement officers. That seems to me the type of issue you'll lean into as a governor and lean into it to your budget. 

To do what you can, I'm open to additional ideas as well. But what I've seen from Dave Reichert and law enforcement officers should know this. He's opposed to me, I think they deserve. 

The greater salary I think there should be signing bosses. I think more resources should be available to local jurisdictions that often don't have much of a budget right to expand on that and to attract those law enforcement officers, so to me, it's a good idea. And I plan a proposing with my first question 

And you've got ferries front and center on your website right now, why is it that so many elected officials say us will be fixed in a few years, one? Why are they saying that in 2 can you fix it faster if this plan that you've laid out on your website? How is that supposed to fix anything, say in a year or 2 years, versus several years down the road. 

I want to be clear. I'm not sure who's saying it can be fixed in a couple years. 

And I'm saying people would like it fixed in a couple of years versus that what I hear from Senators state Senators is, Hey, we're 34 years down the road before we're going to be able to get all these boats up and into service. Can it be done faster, can. Your plan do it faster. 

Yeah, what I would say is, number one, the next governor needs to treat the ferry situation like the prices that it is. That's number 1 number 2, there's a reason why that was my first plans. I rolled out because what I've heard, very clearly how folks in Highland communities come out their frustration to small business owners. 

High school students folks trying to get to a doctor's appointment number 3 as a governor one thing I've learned as Attorney General is we have thousands of cases going at 1 time. I can't be aware of every case, obviously, but I need to make sure I've got folks reporting to me on the most important cases, and they know they're the most board cases for any daily updates on what's going on. Look, as a governor if I propose for Berry service, the person heads up fairies is going to be sent on my cabinet meetings and I'm reporting directly to me. 

It's just like we're having this conversation at the progress we're making, and I think we can move faster to address this. As one example up in the salmon Islands, for example. There is proposal from local elected officials, business folks, Katie leaders on one element of this challenge, which is inadequate staffing. 

But they talk about showing up for a fairy. A fairy is there, but there's not enough people to operate the fury, well, that's going to be pretty Dang frustrating, right? I think most people can realize wait a second constructing, a ferry might take some time, okay? 

And we've got a crisis that might take a little time, oh, you actually have a ferry without the people to run it. That's frustrating, and there are steps, the state can take that outline my plan right to put more resource into getting folks hired. To actually work those areas and get them running when they're available, slide their steps that we can take specifically to shorten that timeline. 

Oh I want folks, the island communities to know and that I've been talking about, is it's a top priority where that person can be in my cabinet meeting is reporting. Directly to me, because to me, it's a crisis, and we need to be packing every single data before it all 

There are people to this day who say part of the problem with law enforcement part of the problem with the ferry system was because there was the vaccine mandate that I know you were supportive of at the time. But with the benefit of hindsight, should there have been a different decision there on the vaccine. Mandates. 

Because other folks who look backwards, that's not my approach, our prices are too many, what I would say for me, as a statewide, elected official, I was the one statewide official that work with our employees who are represented and bargained how we're going to handle the epidemic I think. That's the reason. It's a cover way that I thought from my office to work with the employees and figure how we're going to manage this crisis. 

And so I'm not looking back, right? That's that's, yeah, we got too many challenges moving forward to be looking back. 

On the the carbon commitment act, the biggest complaint has been the price of gas. And I've heard mark Mueller say, Hey, we need to tweak it. Yes, I've heard others say repeal, the whole thing where do you stand on that if once we get past November, if you're elected? 

Yeah, so I've been clear on this needs to be adjusted. You heard me in their time about the issue affordability. I heard all across the state around housing and on gas prices and folks are feeling that, and so the good news is with the climate commitment act, it makes significant contributions to a working family's tax credit. 

We should expand the investment up to hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars. The climate commitment act brings in to increase the amount of funding we have without working working families tax credit, which is to your point addresses folks for a hardest hit by those gas prices that to me is an example of a change. That needs be made, so I don't think we should throw the baby out the bathwater on these issues, right? 

These investments are going to make a huge difference for jobs all across our state addressing climate, all across our state. That's important. I don't think we should go backwards. 

But it's not unusual for any law that the legislature adopts, as you know, it's not perfect the first time it comes out, right? They're trying to put a lot together, so I think vision's on tweaking that changing that to make sure we're addressing that very fundamental issue. Of those gas prices for the folks who can least afford and increase the pump that makes sense to me. 

So if it stays in place and goes to continues on, yeah, your governor you'd be open and tweaking it. 

I've been clear about that from day one I do i want to say not open to it like we need to tweak it, right? Increase that investment on the working family's tax credit want to be very clear that that's been my position on from day one so yes, I'll be opposed to the initiative. Want to be clear, but yes, it needs to be 

It's be improved, so you say you're a change agent. You said it multiple times you know, there are people who will argue that it's a continuation of the insley administration. If you're elected, so how do you, how do you convince people it's not, you're just not the status quo guy. 

I think all our folks have to do is look at my record, right? My first rampant looking kind of council in this neighborhood Iran gets a 20 year incumbent was a Democrat like me who was chair of the King County council. You can't take on the establishment any more than that and what happens to be a deeply democratic part of our state I took on the race and I won that race. 

I support his encounter council member reducing the size and again council from 13 down to 9, the only Democrat who supported that that was common sense from a budget standpoint delivered on that my reward was my 4 year term, which cut short to 2 years. And I lost my district. I had to run again against other Democrat. 

I won again so from day, one in my time in politics, I've been willing to do that as an Attorney General first lawsuit I filed against a President was not Donald Trump, it was Barack Obama. It's on behalf of workers in Central Washington and we won that case, so I've not been shy on taking on my party here locally. I've not been shy about taking on presence at my own party on high-profile cases and I don't plan on changing, but that's why I've always been in my politics. 

I'm proud that I'm the only cam that does not take money from large corporations or corporate packs. It's a people powered campaign. You saw more than a couple 100 people in there right now, right? 

That's what the campaign's about all of my poems, take that money, right? I'm focused on the people which way I've always been my politics. And as a governor that's kind of administration. 

People can see, so I don't worry about comparisons for all different people, you're different than reporters on different news stations, right. You're not the same. You're in the same industry, but you're different, and I think people understand that I'm different. 

And Chris gregoir or different Ben jamesley, or different than Gary Locke, were different people. But the key thing is, I do think we have values as a state if Dave records anti-choice, I do not think that's going to play well with overwhelming the majority of Washington's, he opposes marriage equality. I think that's out of step with the majority of washingtonians, he vowed to repeal the affordable care act, 37 times At a touch, he rolled the Trump agenda. 

93% of the time have attached, so the contrast myself and Dave Reicher, and that's where this campaign's going. By the way, may versus Dave record in November, a choice be very, very clear to someone who is wildly out of touch from the mainstream of Washington voters and someone who's in touch with that mainstream and willing to engage in the kind of change that we need to stake. 

And you're the only Bob Ferguson, though, right? 

I was waiting for that. We can laugh about it now, so a happy ending in the end. But yes, I'm the only Bubb purpose is still running. 

Thanks. 

Okay, appreciate it again, thanks for the time.