All 3 are rolling, okay, you're in the 3 camera treatment. 

I don't know if it's that good or bad. 

And the fancy cameras, okay, so let's start with what happened over the weekend. You mentioned it in front of supporters today from where you sit, what exactly happened at the Republican convention this weekend? 

Well, II think most people are aware of the fact by now that it was a chaotic convention to say the least and it was disingenuous dishonest, uh, everything that happened. Um, from Friday, well, actually Thursday, Friday and Saturday, it was structured in a way to benefit one candidate and it wasn't me and but there were other things leading up to the convention. That helped get us to the point on Friday, where I finally decided that this was not. 

This was not a fair process. It was not an honest process, which bothered me the most before I finally decided I had to withdraw from this, it was some called it a clown show. Some called it a c*** show using a different adjective in front of the show. 

So it was very clear to me. That I had removed myself from that. 

Was it a clown show? 

Well, yes, yes, you know, the so II was arriving, I was told by my staff. This is this chaotic and so I went and stayed some place elves waiting and talking at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. They had a meeting to decide whether or not Mr. 

Byrd would be disqualified due to his admissions of a grand larceny. And bank larceny and a uh um identity theft charge, which he admitted to, so he was disqualified from what we're told from someone who was inside that meeting. It was begrudgingly applied the disqualification, and once it was applied, then the question came up as well. 

If we can't go out there and say that Dave Reichert is the only candidate. All hell will break loose, and so what they decided to do was, well, let's disqualify breakers, so the effort was to try and disqualify me that there was nothing to disqualify beyond. So then the next question was, so maybe we just go ahead and table, the vote for the gubernatorial candidates take it off the agenda, which removed my speaking role on Friday morning and took the whole gubernatorial question. 

Off the table, that's just gives you an idea of the the planning that was done the changing of rules procedures that were changed to get to the outcome that certain people in leadership wanted to get to. And so it was at that time on Friday, late morning, that I decided that I'm done with this. 

So with all of that said, I mean, you're running as Republican, what does that say about the state of the Republican party and watching? 

Oh, it's a total disarray. I mean, it's, it's, it's been, I have said it's being taken hostage by a small group of people who just happen to be in positions of authority within the current structure of the party. There are groups of people across the state who have decided to separate themselves from that small group. 

And began to build rebuild the party, uh, in their community. 

I'm sure you're still running as a Republican. 

Yeah, I'm, I'm running as a Republican. It's representing all the other Republicans who recognize that in this state and really across the country, what people are looking for is some common sense is the ability to when you heard it this morning. Most of the people in the meeting today is we're independents, Republicans and some moderate Democrats that you may have recognized from their comments too, but all those people in that meeting. 

Majority Republicans, I recognize that the important piece here is that let's have someone who has common sense, who looks at problems with, you know, what are the facts? Ask questions, what are the solutions and then makes a decision and moves forward. But first you have to have a conversation with the entire community. 

You just don't make these decisions from an ideological perspective and expect to solve problems that are the problem with our government today is that we have been making decisions. Um, ideologically from the left. And that's why we find ourselves in the status that we find ourselves in today in the state of Washington. 

So one other thing about the convention, Danny Westney wrote about it in the Seattle Times today, about the platform that was I voted on, including abolishing the vote by mail system and going back to the way things were, you've been through a bunch of elections with a vote by mail system in Washington State do. You still believe and vote by mail. 

Well, I believe in fair election, so whatever that process is and in the state of Washington, we have the opportunity to vote, but by mail, we have the opportunity to vote online, people have asked me that question. And I said, look, we have a process today and it's ridiculous to look backwards and think that. We're going to come back to a system that's archaic, we now operate in the world of technology. 

And so both parties are working together to make sure that our election processes say, I have full faith and confidence that our election process is safe, so unfair. 

Thank you. So moving forward, you know, we're doing this segment, 4 for 24, where we're talking to people running for office elected officials about their top 4 priorities. You talked about this a little bit this morning, the things you want to fix what are the 4 things you want to fix in 2024, if you're elected government? 

And the poor things I've chosen to go after and fix are 4 things that I've heard from people around the state that I've talked to. So these aren't like ideas that jumped out of it. I don't, I'm Dave Reichert, I don't have all the answers on one guy, right? 

So as I talk to people around the state, the 4 top issues are that I want to address are the criminal justice system. In total, a homelessness which reduces down to me and most people recognize is mental illness and substance abuse in addressing those 2 issues, and we can help fix the homelessness problem, and then third is the economy, which most people relate to high taxes continually piling on taxes regulation. Being second in the economic topic, fourth is education and people see they're a lack of freedom, especially when it comes to school district, it's the superintendents they want to have local control rather than edics from 

So how do you fix public safety, you know, this that one of your opponents? Bob Ferguson has already talked about $100 million. I hired a bunch of new cops statewide, you talked about it this morning about where Washington State stands in public safety, so how do you fix it? 

It's not something that can be fixed overnight. 

Well, yeah, especially with the way that laws have been, it's rewritten in the last few years regarding policies that restrict police officers from actually doing their job so yes, they've made a little progress in the pursuit laws, but they're not quite there yet. They should allow some technology, along with some of the laws that we're constructing around pursuit. There is a place in this world to have safe pursuits. 

Police officers should be able to pursue criminals. I think most people, the majority of people in Washington State would agree to that, with that thought about pursuit policy that really addresses the first issue, and that is allow police officers to enforce the law, and that means Keep going after the criminals who have just committed a law, especially when you arrive at the scene and the criminals are still there. They Ram your police car and you're not allowed to pursue. 

Uh, they're the crook, if that's ridiculous, it's an upside down world. In my opinion, 2 other issues are Associated with supporting police officers, and I think first thing is we have to elect city officials, county officials, local officials that support police officers that understand the need to have community policing, we go back to that old terminology of community policing and working with the community and building trust, I really like to change. The way that laws are applied when we look at the liabilities that police officers take on when they make these split second decisions, life-or-death decisions, they're worried about getting sued, and they're worried about being charged with a crime themselves. 

And yes, we need to hold cops accountable. Bad actions. Cops don't want bad actors within their police department within the law enforcement community because they make us all look bad. 

So you have to combine the holding accountable, just as you would a citizen to the law in the state of Washington holding law enforcement officers accountable. To the law also, but you've got to give him some leeway, when they make those life-and-death decisions in an instant. And I shared a story earlier today about my own experience, I have a number of those that I could share. 

And then what really bothers me or 2 additional things, and that is a the burn. Jag. Grant monies have been redirected. 

And taken away from the burn, jag task force forces here that exist in the state of Washington, so instead of having a steady stream of funding to fund those task force efforts to arrest those people that are bringing fentanyl, in to our communities and people are dying, 21% increase in fentanyl deaths. In Washington State over last year, they've taken that money away from them. Enforcement, and that's the whole purpose of that, those federal $, they've taken them away, and they put them into other services, which that's good to have services, but you've got to have as you may have heard in our meeting a 3 legged stool and you've got to have that support of the community you've got to have enforcement, you've got to have that social services aspect of it, and when they took the burn jag money away. 

They only now have funding for 1 year. So every year now they have to go back and ask for funding to continue the investigation on cartels and gangs. The last thing that I would mention in-law enforcement, I have a longer list, but I'll end it with this. 

We have a system in place through an appointed roll board. We have released about 35% of our inmates. Who have not completed their sentences, there has to be consequences. 

You have to do the time, if you do the crime, the old saying, if you're going to do the crime, you've got to do the time and people need to know that that are committing crimes in our communities when I visited small businesses here. In Wenatchee, that is the first thing it was mentioned to me. Was that the crime in Wenatchee. 

The crime rate and the feeling of being unsafe, and so I would remove members of the pearl board the isrb, I've removed those members and I had personal experiences with cases in the past where they're allowing or want to allow the release of them, people who have murdered more than 1 person. It's, they want to release them from prison, and I know, I know these people, and I know they would kill yet. 

I didn't even hear you say touch the surplus money that you talked about even this morning to hire a bunch of new officers or try to attract new officers we had mentioned. 

Yeah, so well, what I did say this morning in regard to the to the funding piece was that cops don't do this job to get rich and and in my opinion, the, the plan Bob Ferguson is it's all about money, so if we pay cops, if we just pay the cities and the counties. Some money and then everything will be fine and cops will come. No cops will not come unless they're supported by the community. 

They have assurances that their lives and their families are going to be protected by the law, just as much as any other citizen is protected by the law and that they're supportive. But that's those, those things are things that are absolutely critical. Not only supported in the community but supported by the prosecutor's office and prosecuting crimes having jail space, some communities need new jails. 

The jails are ancient, but but a community is does not want to spend the money on on? Law enforcement on public safety, and that's and they're not going to be able to do that until they get the community support. So just coming out and saying him is, I'm going to, you know, spend a $100000 or whatever the figure was, he threw out, it does not solve the problem. 

There is a lot more Complicated, and just thrown, there's some money on the problem. 

So let's talk about numbers, I think, and this is objectively speaking, a lot of Republicans have looked to you for years to run for governor because of your King County ties. And that's where Republicans have had problems for years in terms of the vote. And I've talked to consultants, who if we talk about this all the time, how tough it is for Republican to get 40 A percent of the vote, you know, this, but I'll rattle it off Donald Trump lost 74 to 22 730000 votes in the last election innsley ₩, by nearly 550000 votes. 

You beat don't even trell it by 13 points in 2016. But Jay insley won by 35 points, 350000 votes rob McKenna lost by 25 points, 230000 votes in 2012 Gregor 1 by nearly 30 points in 2008, Republicans have had a butt kick in King County for a long time and haven't. Been able to get over the 40 marks, so why are you the guy to get over the 40 mile? 

I can't get 

Yeah, because I've never taken. I've never taken the butt kicking that everybody else has taken so when Obama ran I won both times so I run 7 times in Congress, 17 times and they were tough elections as everyone knows, and that was in a Democrat is the district that a Republican won, why? Because we approach problems based on facts, we were looking for solutions and we've listened to everybody in the community and not everyone was happy with my vote, so I would take a vote in the eighth district and if it was a yes vote. 

Upset. 1/2 of the Constituency in and the other half would be happy, if I took a no vote, and it would be real at first, you know, you'd have to come back to the community and explain your vote. We can win this time because the issues that we're facing the ones that I listed off are match perfectly with the experience that I've had throughout my lifetime, and Not just only in the law enforcement world, but in Congress being the chairman of the trade committee on the ways and means committee, and that is, as you know, 40% of our jobs here in Washington, state directly associated related to trade, chairing the tax committee, chairing the human resources subcommittee. 

Those are things that I did. In Congress, that. Look at that fifth to me perfectly with the issues that we're facing today, the other point I'll make is that the polls have been consistently showing that those undecided that undecided voters pool has increased from a 47% pool, to almost 25%. 

We already have 43% of that, 25% pop works and only has 32% of that 25. We're going to get the rest of those 25% and you saw some of that today at pivas market of people I've never met before. I'm a Democrat, I want to sign, and by the way, I'm voting for you. 

So that's happening all across the state 

So you think you can get over 40 in King County to win us? I don't know what the 

Yeah, I don't know what the number in King County would be, but I'm confident I'm going to do well in Kent County. 

What's your strategy for winning? And we're getting to a certain number in King County because all the elections Uber the last 20 years have shot, you've got to do well in a statewide race as a Republican in King County. 

Well, I mean, the vantage I have there is I have. I have great name. ID already in King County to homish county, Pierce County, you know, I see that as as a collective of votes, we're spending a lot of time in Seattle meeting with constituents in Seattle, we've had a lot of events downtown Seattle, I'm meeting with people and we're going to continue to do that. 

I think that the attraction is again. I don't base my decisions on ideology, based my decisions on fact, and I look for input from people who live in the communities that want and need to be listened to that want to need help. And so, and that's why I'm doing this. 

I know I can win, I think people are ready for a change. I think that it's time that we balance our approach to government. After 40 years of Democrat governor and almost 40 years and our House of Representatives, by the way, has been in the minority for 23 years. 

So it is time, I think it brings some other perspectives, some new ideas, fresh ideas and a balance. Let's just step back, take a deep breath and make sure, we're going in the right direction. And I think that that's, it's really, uh, a message that resonates 

And I heard what you told everybody talked about. Being so ideological, I just told you the numbers about what happened 4 years ago with Donald Trump, if would you campaign for Donald Trump, or would you campaign alongside him in Washington State? 

Well, the one thing I'm not going to do is let the national politics drive what's happening here in Washington State, so I'm not going to nationalize this race. I'm focused on what's happening here in Washington, and I'm focused on correcting what Bob Ferguson and jansley have done over the last 12 years. 

That sounds like a no 

You can read that any way you want to my, my effort is really, and truly, I'm being honest is right here in Washington State, do I care about the rest of the country? Absolutely, we're a part of it, but I'm not going to. I'm not going to let this campaign be divided by jumping into nationalizing this race. 

So when we last spoke, we talked about homelessness, you had even talked about building a bunch of shelters on McNeil island do you still believe that's a viable solution? 

Well, you know, I think that, for the point of that, that example was to give you an idea that and for me, everything is on the table, why wouldn't it be? I mean, if you are a person who's running for governor and you think, you know, all the answers I'm not voting for you, I wouldn't. I think other people would too, if I come in and said, we're going to do this. 

We're going to do that we're going to do this and I have the answers and you gotta trust me. No, it's a communication with the community trying to figure out what the best resolution is. And so the fact is that we need a place as you heard me say today at piva's market, I want to triage our homeless, so I want to take women and children off the street. 

First, we have a plan in place already people are working. It's working, so we just attach ourselves to that plan. And that is And again, this is talking to the community, they have homes, much like, uh, domestic violence, safe places for families that have gone through that where the addresses are held secret, so that the abusers can't find where they are so they're protected. 

So we do that for the women and children who are living on. Our streets today, secondly, our veterans need that same safe place. They need to be taken off the streets. 

There's no way our veterans should be on the streets, third, the large group that you're talking about, we start looking for a place for them, whether it's the Um, soon abandoned university evergreen university, whether it's a downtown building whether it's an old hotel in Renton, whether it's McNeil island it doesn't really matter. As long as you locate a place. If you make it, make a decision, you start to house people there, you give them responsibilities. 

They know they have to get up at 8 in the morning, the light comes on. They know they have to make the bed, they know they have to mop the floor they know they have to clean a bathroom and then they go to classes. They're going to go to their mental health professional. 

They're going to go to work therapy classes, they're going to go to drug substance abuse classes. Those things have to be around those people, and it's going to take time because we're in a deep deep hole right now. 

So when somebody accuses you of being extreme on that position, the idea of shipping people to an island you would say what 

Well, I don't think any idea right now is should be off the table, that's what I say. I say that the the goal is, if you need to help these people, let's find a way to do it. Let's buy the cheapest way, let's find it as far as housing. 

Let's find the best way to surround them with social services that people disagree with that and consider that to be extreme. I would strongly disagree. 

Another issue that is going to be forefront in this election is abortion, and you and I have talked about this in the past. You have told me what your personal position is. You've also told me that you believe that that issue has been decided in this state, however, there are voters independent voters who are still concerned about any sort of change on the state level and a federal ban on abortion. 

Would you support a federal ban on the world? 

I'm again focused on Washington State. Supreme Court has already decided this issue. This is a state's committe rights issue, we have had a law in Washington State that was passed in 1970. 

This is a question that's already been answered in Washington State. I don't believe any elected official. Any politician should be making this decision for the women of Washington State. 

The period or the voters, all the voters of Washington State, especially the women. That's my, that's my answer. And I mean, it 

So you believe that that issue is settled in Washington State and you wouldn't try to do anything as governor to change abortion laws, water. 

Wall Street no I don't think any politician should be working toward any agenda when it comes to abortion in Washington State, it's a question that's already been decided and I don't believe any politician should be making that statement should be making that change from making that decision regarding abortion. For any woman. 

In Washington State, so when Bob Ferguson says that the state needs to have somebody who will fight for them if there is AAA potential change with federal laws, and that that's why he should be governor you would answer. 

Yeah, well, he's, yeah, so Bob Ferguson also says, Dave Reichert is dangerous for Washington State if Bob is going to run a campaign based on fear and based on lies, he's saying things that that I wouldn't do and never, I intend to do, that's going to be the tactic. That he has, it's the only tactic he has is to use fear and lies to paint me in a life that is unfavorable to voters. People know me. 

I hope they listen to me closely. In this interview, I have no intention at all. I'm making any effort toward changing any laws in Washington State regarding abortion that should be up to the voters, especially the women of Washington State. 

And as far as gay marriage because he made the, he raised the issue the other day about a speech that you had given about marriage being between a man and a woman. Do you believe that gay marriage is also set up in Washington? 

Absolutely. It doesn't matter what I believe if what matters is people have free will. And my faith is, and God has given us all we will so we have our own decisions to make as to who we're going to love, how we're going to create our families, what we're going to do for a living and where we live, and how we survive those are things that are innate to our human nature. 

Those are The inalienable rights as they're called in the Constitution and those are rights that are yours and I have no intention whatsoever. In fact, I'll just share a quick story. And I know you can't, you're not going to have the time to put this on air. 

We've got Como news.com too. We got polio flight. 

So we got a platform, all right, so here's and when I was running for sheriff, I think was the second campaign I was invited to speak to stop off of Broadway, to a group to the lbgtq community. So I went in and I, the leader of the group introduces me and says, we know Dave and I and the restaurants may not agree on every issue, but we're going to have this discussion respectfully, which we did until we got to one individual who said what, you know, what do you believe? I shared my thoughts and she got pretty angry. 

The the leader of the group said, OK, we said we were going to be respectful, so let's move on to the next person, so I said, no, wait a minute. Can we just go back 2 in person for a minute and uh, so I looked at her and I said, here's the deal when this meeting is over and we opened this door. And we walk out of this meeting, we walk onto the streets of Broadway, if any one of you in here have your life threatened, I would give my life for you that was back in. 

I want to say 2000 or 99 I still feel in the same way I will protect the rights of every individual in this state. 

LGBTQ, translucent, or 

Included, no question. 

Yep, absolutely, so we'll kind of wrap on this and hopefully that car. 

We'll continue our treatment by that strong answer, and I'm going to be able to use that 

Yes, you're fine, okay, good 

So you're not going to use that anyway problem 

Circle back no no circle. Yeah. Well, we'll all put this all together for good digital, so let's circle back to how we started with the the campaign going into the convention. 

You did not get the endorsement from the state Republicans, are you enjoying campaigning? I mean, I've heard that you don't really enjoy it. It is part of it all 

And who told you that I think that's funny, really? Yeah, I've heard a man. Did you see me down at pibus market I love, I love meeting people. 

I love visiting businesses. The only part that I don't appreciate ISIS the is the fund raising part just because they don't like to do it doesn't mean we don't do it. We've actually were closed on closing in O $3 million already, so we must be doing something, right? 

No II love a campaign. Having am I having a ball. My wife told me she said, you know, this is the happiest, I've seen you since you retired from Congress, so even she's happy. 

Even if you didn't get the endorsement from the state Republicans 

I don't care about that. It doesn't matter. We're going to win anyway. 

Yep, we made it through the music and 

Animal traffic, yeah, perfect. 

Okay, go ahead and get started, okay. Well, you've been through this a few times 

Yeah, I never thought I'd be back here again to tell you the truth. 

A few times so, you know, we like it to be pretty conversational. We do have some specific questions to ask you, and you know us, where not shy, if you start to answer a question, we didn't ask, we'll nudge you back onto the topic that we did ask. But I don't think that'll be a problem. 

And so you've got water, let us know if you need anything else and we'll get started. But first of all, we always like to thank people that are willing to run for office and willing to serve so thank you for your past service in the county in Congress and thanks for running again. And being really disturbed, thank you, well, why don't we just get started one of the most important things for us? 

It's education in this state and a dozen years ago, the state Supreme Court ruled that the state's education finance system was unconstitutional, though the legislature poured billions. Of dollars into education, profound funding and equities persist between schools throughout the state. You probably see that in Enumclaw, you see that in, you know, in small communities around the state, what are your ideas about how to fix that? 

Yeah, I think that's, you know, it's one of the most. I think, critical issues facing our education system is, you have these inequities across the state. And I do think that, excuse me, part of the problem is it's not a apologize that all of it came on and all of a sudden, it's not a, it's not a revenue problem, it's not, it's more of a spending. 

Issue. And I think we're, we really need to evaluate where the spending within our educational system is being applied. I know that teachers unions may not like to hear this, but we have some of the highest teachers didn't used to be that way, but we do today and I think that we need to take a look at first of all, prioritizing spending. 

Some of the other things that I would like to see happen as far as creating some equity would be really taking a look at charter schools and more choice in where parents can send their children for education. I think that most studies have shown that charter schools do address the inequity issues. They're more depth, they're more nimble, that are able to respond to the needs of the community, and one of the And one of the ideas that's been explored, is this backpack idea where you can actually take, you know, the funding that you the taxes that you pay for education can actually move with your child as you choose the educational format that your child wants to put, you know, that you want your child to participate in. 

So I would like to explore that a little bit and see if we might be able to move in that Direction. 

Are you talking about bachers? 

No a more more would be so that you're paying property taxes and some of the property taxes are applied to your school districts. And then there's also school levees that in some school districts, of course, levees can produce a lot of revenue if you choose to move your child to a different school, the taxes that you pay on your property taxes that go to the school. Public school, you can follow your child to a choice school and I think we need to do more with, you know, choice schools or another option that focus on, as you know, focus on certain specific views, topics and curriculum within schools. 

But there's waiting lines for those schools and most of the choice schools exist in those. More affluent neighborhoods, I'd like to see those develop. I think resource education centers or another option for us to take a look at there's a resource center located in Vancouver that I've visited, that is not taking any state funding at all, but they are able to provide. 

Education specific to topics like music or science or math. So I think there's a lot of options that we can see discuss. And I think that one of the most important things for me, when I was when I was serving in whatever whatever entity I know, I was happy to be a part of and serve in it's really about including the community and having a discussion with teachers and parents, and what I've discovered the biggest concern I've heard is that from From teachers and parents there's they want choice that the teachers want choice because they want to be able to teach the subjects they were trained to teach, and they feel like they're restricted. 

The parents want choice because they want to be able to choose the schools, the curriculum they want their students to be more. Focused on steam used to be stem, as you know, but I'm glad they include the art and the stem, because by a lot of my kids and grandkids are very artistic and so they lean in that direction. But I think that parents are really focused on. 

Not some of the nuts and bolts of education. 

So let me ask you this, though, the democratic majorities in the house and the senate, not all Democrats, of course, but the majorities in the house and senate are pretty hostile to charter schools. What would you do to turn that around? Would you support charter schools getting some of the local Levy funding getting more funding. 

I would, yeah, but boy, I'll tell you, you know, that's that's going to be an easy job, and as I like to tease people, you know, I used to be a hostage negotiator in the sheriff's office. So I think that those skills, you know, and just having been in the public. Service arenas that I've been involved in, it's really all about working with people, and I know that that hostility exists with charter schools, but, you know, there have been leaders within the Democrat party, including the President past President of the United States that have been very complementary in their remarks regarding public schools and especially as it addresses the iniquities of certain neighborhoods and communities across the country, and so You know, some of those members in the Democrat party may not be able to, you may not be able to convince, but I think there's some moderates that would be open-minded, at least to the discussion. 

The other thing that I would add about education and just speaking of my godson, whose special needs. You know, one of the reasons I voted against the The the Republican alternative bill to obamacare, so they had taken a they placed in there a tremendous cut to special needs education, and I think in this state too. We need to focus on, I've been a partner with provale here in Seattle. 

It's a passion for me, and I think when you, when you, when you're close to people who have special needs developmentally disabled the people, those are those are things that I would really like this religion. Just by turmopy of focus 

All right, thank you, choir. 

Clearly, you've given a lot of thought to education and thanks for mentioning the special education aspect, one concern that a lot of people have. And I think I'm hearing it and your remarks is regarding accountability and it's sort of a 2 part question. And what do you think the governor's role should be regarding education and trying to instill a little bit more accountability. 

That's part one. I'm interested in your thoughts on the governor's role since the governor hasn't traditionally been a major player in Washington State education. 

Yeah, well, I think that not only the governor should play a major role in education, but from the governor through the legislature through the parents' family and the community. So I thank the governor through leadership and talking about education as being a priority and sharing your views on what's critical, what's important and then the other thing is, I think looking at, of course, we're supposed to have 50% of the budget is supposed to be directly attributed to education, which exactly. So that would be, you know, that would be a strong message that a new governor could stand is that we're going to hit that 50% mandate. 

It's the law. So in my opinion, we should be striving to spend that 50%, but again, you have to look at priorities. Where are we spending our money and what do we want to see. 

What do we want to build here? We're behind Mississippi, when it comes to our education and the failure that we've had here in the state of Washington. 

The one way to instill greater accountability might be to have the superintendent of public schools that they have in it position. Governor gregoir advocated for this, even Chris reichdal, the present superintendent of public education has in the past suggested that this might be a problem, a reasonable way to consolidate all the many different agencies that have a sort of finger in education and to focus accountability under right presently, there's really nobody who can answer for our as you reference, are. 

Pretty lackluster outcome, so I'm wondering what you think about. The possibility is 

I totally agree with that. I'm glad you mentioned it. I do think that there's, it needs to be a correct, a moment through the governor and that could be one way that could happen in directing, making sure that we get the 50% funding making sure that we, I have this spokesperson, it takes leadership to run a governor's office and you can't do that if you have to fight with elected officials and boards. 

Hello, hello. 

Right. 

So what is that?