Speaker 1  (00:00)
 Ankle, go ahead and get started, okay. Well, you've been through that through this a few times
 Dave Reichert  (00:08)
 Yeah, I never thought I'd be back here. Didn't tell you the truth.
 Speaker 1  (00:13)
 A few times so, you know, we like it to be pretty conversational. We do have some specific questions to ask you and you know us, we're not shy. If you start to answer a question, we didn't ask, we'll meji back onto the topic that we did ask, but I don't think that'll be a problem.
 Speaker 1  (00:29)
 And so you've got water, let us know if you need anything else and we'll get started. But first of all, we always like to thank people that are willing to run for office and willing to serve, so thank you for your past service in the county in Congress and thanks for running again and being willing to.
 Dave Reichert  (00:49)
 Thank you, sir, oh, thank you.
 Speaker 1  (00:51)
 Okay, um, well, why don't we just get started one of the most important things for us? It's education in this state and a dozen years ago, the state Supreme Court ruled that the state's education finance system was unconstitutional, though the legislature poured billions of dollars into education. Profound funding and equities persist between schools throughout the state.
 Speaker 1  (01:17)
 You probably see that in enum claw, you see that in, you know, in small communities around the state, what are your ideas about how to fix that?
 Dave Reichert  (01:28)
 Yeah, I think that's, you know, it's one of the most. I think, critical issues facing our education system is that you have these inequities across the state. And I do think that excuse me, part of the problem is it's not a apologize that all of it came on all of a sudden, it's not a, it's not a revenue problem, it's not, it's more of a spending.
 Dave Reichert  (01:59)
 Issue, and I think we really need to evaluate where the spending within our educational system is being applied. I know that teachers unions may not like to hear this, but we have some of the highest paid teachers didn't used to be that way, but we do today. And I think that we need to take a look at first of all, prioritizing spending.
 Dave Reichert  (02:25)
 Some of the other things that I would like to see happen as far as creating some equity would be really taking a look at charter schools and more choice in where parents can send their children for education. I think that most studies have shown that charter schools do address the inequity issues. They're more depth, they're more nimble, that are able to respond to the needs of the community, and one of the And one of the ideas that's been explored, is this backpack idea where you can actually take, you know, the funding that you the taxes that you pay for education can actually move with your child as you choose the educational format, your child wants to, you know, that you want your child to participate in.
 Dave Reichert  (03:20)
 So I would like to explore that a little bit and see if we might be able to move in that direction.
 Speaker 1  (03:28)
 Are you talking about bachers?
 Dave Reichert  (03:31)
 No more more would be, so you're paying property taxes and some of the property taxes are applied to your school districts. And then there's also school levees that in some school districts, of course, levees can produce a lot of revenue if you choose to move your child to a different school. The taxes that you pay on your property taxes that go to the school.
 Dave Reichert  (03:57)
 Public school, you can follow your child to a choice school. I think we need to do more with, you know, choice, schools or another option that focus on, as you know, focus on certain specific topics and curriculum within schools. But there's waiting lines for those schools that most of the choice schools exist in those more affluent neighborhoods, I'd like to see those develop, I thank resource education centers or another option for us to take a look at there's a resource center located in Vancouver that I've visited, that is not taking any state funding at all, but they are able to provide Education specific to topics like music or science or math.
 Dave Reichert  (04:51)
 So I think there's a lot of options that we can see discuss. And I think that one of the most important things for me, when I was when I was serving in whatever whatever entity I know, I was happy to be a part of and serve in it's really about including the community and having a discussion with teachers and parents, and what I've discovered the biggest concern I've heard is that Trump From teachers and parents there's they want choice, the teachers want choice because they want to be able to teach the subjects they were trained to teach, and they feel like they're restricted.
 Dave Reichert  (05:34)
 The parents want choice because they want to be able to choose the schools, the curriculum they want their students to be more focused. On steam used to be stem, as you know, but I'm glad they include the art and the stem, because by a lot of my kids and grandkids are very artistic and so they lean in that direction. But I think that parents are really focused on some of the nuts and bolts of education.
 Speaker 1  (06:05)
 So let me ask you this, though, the democratic majorities in the house and the senate, not all Democrats, of course, but the majorities in the house and senate are pretty hostile to charter schools. What would you do to turn that around? Would you support charter schools getting some of the local Levy funding getting more funding.
 Dave Reichert  (06:27)
 I would, yeah. And boy, I'll tell you, you know, that's, that's going to be an easy job, and as I like to tease people, you know, I used to be a hostage negotiator in the sheriff's office. So I think that those skills, you know, and just having been in the public service arenas that I've been involved in, it's really all about working with people and I know that that hostility exists with charter schools, but, you know, there have been leaders within the Democrat party, including the President past President of the United States that have been very complementary in their remarks regarding public schools.
 Dave Reichert  (07:05)
 And especially as it addresses the iniquities of certain neighborhoods and communities across the country, and so You know, some of those members in the Democrat party may not be able to, you may not be able to convince that, but I think there's some moderates that would be open-minded, at least to the discussion, the other thing that I would add about education and just speaking of my godson, whose special needs, you know, one of the reasons I voted against the Republican. Alternative bill to obamacare that they had taken a, they placed in there a tremendous cut to special needs education, and I think in this state too, we need to focus on.
 Dave Reichert  (07:55)
 I've been a partner with provail here in Seattle. It's a passion for me, and I think when you, when you when you're close to people who have special needs developmentally disabled people, those are And those are things that I would really like to see, the legislature in the Olympia, focus on Speaker 1  (08:21)
 Thank you, Claire.
 Speaker 3  (08:24)
 Clearly, you've given a lot of thought to education and thanks for mentioning the special education aspect, one concern that a lot of people have. And I think I'm hearing it and your remarks is regarding accountability and it's sort of a 2 part question, but what do you think the governor's role? Should be regarding education and trying to instill a little bit more accountability.
 Speaker 3  (08:52)
 That's part one. I'm interested in your thoughts on the governor's role since the governor hasn't traditionally been a major player in Washington State education.
 Dave Reichert  (09:01)
 Yeah, well, I think that not only the governor should play a major role in education, but from the governor through legislature through the parents' family and the community. So I thank the governor through leadership and talking about education as being a priority and sharing your views on what's critical. What's important and then the other thing is I think looking at, of course, they're supposed to have 50% of the budget is supposed to be directly attributed to education, which exactly.
 Dave Reichert  (09:36)
 So that would be, you know, that would be a strong message that a new governor could send is that we're going to hit that 50% mandate. It's the law. So in my opinion, we should be striving to spend that 50%, but again, you have to look at priorities.
 Dave Reichert  (09:57)
 Where are we spending our money and what do we want to see. What do we want to build here? We're behind Mississippi, when it comes to our education and the failure that we've had here in the state of Washington.
 Speaker 3  (10:12)
 One way to its still greater accountability might be to have the superintendent of public schools as a cabinet position. Governor gregoir advocated for this even Chris reichdahl, the present superintendent of public education has in the past suggested that this might be a bit of a reasonable way to consolidate all the many different agencies. That have a sort of finger in education and to focus accountability under right presently, there's really nobody who can answer for our as you reference, are.
 Speaker 3  (10:49)
 Pretty lackluster outcome, so I'm wondering what you think about the possibility.
 Dave Reichert  (10:53)
 And I totally agree with that. I'm glad you mentioned it. I do think that there needs to be more direct involvement through the governor and that could be one way that that could happen in directing, making sure that we get the 50% funding, making sure that we have this spokesperson, it takes leadership to run a governor's office and you can't do that if you have to fight with elected officials and boards, and they' So I guess I'm in agreement with governor.
 Speaker 3  (11:27)
 On making the osps superintendent, he have an opposition interesting one, so to follow app to that is college-going the sort of other far end of the education journey, so Washington's college-going and career training rates are traditionally low and traditionally lag the national average and took an even bigger hit during the pandemic, but But our low and we have an editory only paper today that talks about the number of jobs that are going to require some kind of advanced education training or certification very soon within the next 7 years, so I'm wondering how you would propose to improve college-going among Washington State students since we already have And perhaps the most generous state-funded scholarship program in the country, but it's not Dave Reichert  (12:29)
 Moving the needle, yeah, so I mean that that I wish I had a crystal ball and to that answer, but I think it's a combination of a lot of problems coming together in the time that we live in, if I just go back to the first question that you ask very quickly and that is I do. Believe even though the governor I like the idea of a cabinet member, but I strongly believe in local school district control, so it's one thing I've been hearing from superintendents is that they get edicts from Olympia, and they're told this is how you're going to construct your educational system within your community, I really believe that the superintendent, along with the teachers and the parents who live in that community, should be working.
 Dave Reichert  (13:25)
 I think it would really create an opportunity tomorrow. For teachers and parents to begin to speak to me to rebuild that relationship, that's sort of been has dissolved over the years. And when you have that kind of relationship and you build trust within the community and when you have trust, and you make progress in finding solutions to the problems and yes, there needs to be standards set by the state so that the superintendents the school districts meet those standards.
 Dave Reichert  (13:57)
 So back to your second question, I really believe that part of the problem is that we are encouraging young people to me. Just just through the way that our society is we built today to not have hope. And so I really think it's, I know it's this kind of a philosophical approach to the question that you've asked, but I really believe that a lot of our young people have lost hope in their future.
 Dave Reichert  (14:29)
 And some may not see a real need to continue their education, so To me, what I'd like to see is an emphasis in our schools, a more of a sort of like the recruiters in the military used to do come into the high schools and you have a pitch to join the Army or the navy or the Marines, you know, we need the universities in our schools. And talking about in advertising and educating kids who are in high school to the benefits, and I think our teachers in those schools and middle schools and high school can do that themselves, but want professors or representatives from our local universities here in this state come in and make a presentation.
 Dave Reichert  (15:19)
 I think that holds more power and so I do think that In my opinion, more emphasis could be made the other thing that I think needs to happen is that we begin to allow students in high school to take college level classes so they can get ahead. So we have a shortage of nurses and doctors and you name it, if we can start programs within the high school level of our education system start directing people recruiting people to the nursing A professional or in some doctoral profession or name one I really think that we could start to make progress.
 Dave Reichert  (16:03)
 Some young people could almost have 2 years of their education to get their nursing degree or their doctor degree already applied to college, and I know that's similar to running start, which my kids all participated in. When they were in high school and it's an old program, but I think I need some revitalization. Okay.
 Speaker 4  (16:24)
 You've told us that you support repealing the climate commitment act, of course, which it prohibits, what is Capitan, invest, cap-and-trade? If you will or in a carbon tax in Washington State, I believe, and by doing so, it also prevents the state from any sort of taxation of carbon or carpentry, in the future, and I'm curious, you also told us that you're interested in real solutions to climate change, and I want to know what that looks like and how you would proceed without a revenue source to fund efforts in fighting climate change.
 Dave Reichert  (17:04)
 So there are some revenue sources. And first of all, look, I have AA pretty stellar environmental record in Congress. I could go through the list, but you probably already have researched that and know that and so II am very concerned about and supportive of a very robust environmental Uh, agenda, in the state of Washington, I think we should be the leaders, but as it comes to reducing carbon in our environment, keeping our waters and streams, clean reviolate, revitalizing our fish resources and other wildlife in the state, you can look at some of my alleged slave votes there and they support those efforts so it's not that I'm against the environmental Policies that have been set app, but I do think that there's a balance that we need to strike and we have gone full steam.
 Dave Reichert  (18:20)
 I had so to speak into this protect the environment world, but at the same time, we have, we are hurting the progress of our state, so II am open to the idea. Of all of the above energy approach, which would include wind and solar, I voted in Congress to support both of those technologies. I'm really interested in the small modular nuclear reactors.
 Dave Reichert  (18:58)
 It's very environmentally friendly. I've toured the plant seen how this works and the amount of energy that it produces, we know that in the future, this state is going to require more and more energy, especially with big tech coming in and using more water to cool the systems that they use in producing the products that they produce, we don't want rolling blackouts, we don't want brownouts, so we have to look at wind solar. Hydroelectricity, the small, modular nuclear energy, hydrogen, and all of those above energies and orders in order to get us to the forefront of not only protecting our environment but attracting businesses and jobs to Washington State.
 Speaker 4  (19:51)
 Okay, and you mentioned that you, I think you believe the climate commitment act is hurting the progress of our state that there is that, can you tell me more about Dave Reichert  (20:00)
 About yeah, I think, well, specifically, if you look at the gas, the carbon gas tax, that's really the thing that's, I think, and I'll tell you, I've been, I've been all the way up to liberty or she didn't have you've been to liberty. It is. In the yeah, it's probably the most isolated little town in the state, Northeast, right up in the corner by Canada and Idaho, and then all the way to wakayakum county, on the other Southwest side of the state, but all across the state, there's not been one group that I've talked to, and it's not just Republican groups, but it's been a mixed group of town halls with independents Democrats etc, that gas tax is hurting people.
 Dave Reichert  (20:44)
 And that's the reason I stand behind the fact that we need to put a pause button. We need to stop and adjust our thinking on where we're headed with this gas tax, because we are not only hurting people now, people who are just driving to and from work well, just take an example of me. Coming to to your office this morning.
 Dave Reichert  (21:05)
 Almost 2 hours of travel time stuck in traffic. We will let our roads deteriorate bridges highways. You name it, people are looking for dirt roads now to go around the isaquahobart road has turned into a freeway that's backed up for miles to try to get into Issaquah, I was backed up on 18 as a qua bark.
 Dave Reichert  (21:27)
 405, just to get here today, you're sitting in traffic burning gas parked, so we've let our highways deteriorate to the point where we can't move our total gridlock, and I think we've purposely done that to move forward in other modes of transportation that we're not quite ready for yet, is sort of like the very system, if I could just touch on that really quick.
 Speaker 4  (21:58)
 I have a question
 Dave Reichert  (21:59)
 Oh, what are you doing?
 Speaker 4  (22:01)
 Yeah, you brought you brought up roads. So you know, again if gas prices are the problem in your estimation, how do we pay for those improvements when we have a state? That's the state, the Constitution, we're literally geared, we use gas tax revenues to do the very work that you're talking about, so how do we pay for that, if not guessing?
 Dave Reichert  (22:19)
 All right. That's, I mean, that's a discussion we had in Congress too. We can see that coming, you know, nationwide, it's not just a Washington State problem, but when you look at Washington State, I know some say that.
 Dave Reichert  (22:30)
 Yes, there is enough again, we don't have a revenue problem. We have a spending problem. So the first thing you've got to do is take a look at the roads.
 Dave Reichert  (22:39)
 We've got to prioritize those roads, when I went to Congress in 2005 I remember getting back, and they did earmarks, I know they're back to that, and they're restricted, which is a good thing. They've got smart about how they do it. I hope, but I was able to get an earmark for highway 18 in 2005 this year.
 Dave Reichert  (23:03)
 They finally started fixing the intersection at I 90 and highway 18, why did it take almost 20 years to start that progress? It wasn't a priority. And that should have been a priority because that is a major major freeway for truckers going down into the valley where the warehouses are.
 Dave Reichert  (23:25)
 So when you look at funding, we've got 8% of our budget goes to transportation, let's first prioritize that 8%. Then let's take a look at the other. There' $4.1 billion in reserve, there's, I guess 2.8 million billion dollars that are unrestricted.
 Dave Reichert  (23:47)
 Can any of that money be shifted into the transportation effort in the prioritization of looking at our rows bridges and freeways? The other thing that I would do is redirect some revenue, and that would mean that when you buy a car, some of the taxes, more of the taxes from the car, go to highways when you buy tires or the taxes from your tires, go to helping fix the highways or you could even Look at you know more of the money from your license. Tabs and car registration, even being directed toward fixing our highways and freeways and culverts etc.
 Speaker 4  (24:36)
 Now to the other side of the coin, you know, you've talked about the state Department of Transportation needing to improve efficiency. I would be interested in this frankly at the whole in all of state government, but what do you mean by improve efficiency? What are we doing in our state's Department of Transportation, particularly right now that it could be improved to, hopefully make sure that the dollars we do spend are spent fishing Dave Reichert  (25:01)
 Actually, yeah, well, I think the first for me, it's, you know, you always hear this word tossed around transparent. I think if we were transparent. And I know that there's been a move that direction we used to see signs that said, Hey, your tax dollars, you know, if you're driving around the state you see these signs up your tax dollars on this or you know, it's going to fix this highway, and it'll be done by whatever I don't see those so much anymore, but I think for me, as a citizen as a citizen of Washington State that was beneficial for me to know, okay.
 Dave Reichert  (25:31)
 You know, my taxes are going to this particular roadway. I do think it boils down to Having priorities, so if I'm budgeting my own finances in my own little world of my house with my wife, and I maybe I want to buy a new car this year, but I look around the house and I find out the roof is leaking. I think that we've made some mistakes and we haven't fixed the leaky roof and we've gone out and bought a new car, and I think we've done that with ferries.
 Dave Reichert  (26:05)
 I think we've done that with roads, I think we've done that with the homelessness I think we've done that with criminal justice system. And just about every aspect of government, as you sort of referred to generally speaking, we have not taken leadership in these issues, we've applied the same old solutions, and we've not prioritized Speaker 4  (26:26)
 Okay, dumb. And lastly, fairies, I am curious, you know, you talked about, repealing fare increases the vessel, a replacement surcharge, so lowering. But we're going to need money to pay for new ferries, so what is your ferry plan?
 Speaker 4  (26:42)
 What's that look like?
 Dave Reichert  (26:43)
 Yeah, so yeah, so they're paying those bear increases are to pay for the electric ferries that are to come. Uh, data. No, but my idea would be less move forward less, let us buy, I would like 5 new ferries that are hybrid electric, a clean burning diesel that could be fully electric sometime in the future.
 Dave Reichert  (27:14)
 That's the direction that we head in the future. I do think too and And that there are energies that we may not even be thinking about today that are 10 20 30 years out in the future.
 Speaker 4  (27:30)
 And I don't want to mince words, but the plan right now is 5 hybrid electric ferries diesel with batteries. That is the plan right now.
 Dave Reichert  (27:39)
 Well, that's not as far as far as I understood the governor's plan. Is he is building electric ferries. What's happened is they just, they've let the ferry system go, as you know, I've been up there.
 Dave Reichert  (27:52)
 I've talked to the people that live up there are using, you know, personal watercraft to go-between Islands. So one of the things I would do is say, look, we need to come up with a way to support the personal transportation between Islands to get to doctors' offices, and they' Schools and and other appointments in a visiting family etc so that inner island transportation needs to happen. I would speed up the purchase of these hybrid diesel.
 Dave Reichert  (28:26)
 It varies.
 Speaker 1  (28:27)
 Thank you, I'm Alex.
 Speaker 5  (28:30)
 So sorry, I have a few questions on behavioral health and housing sort of my prosecutoria so as a little bit of context. As you know, last year, King County voters approved it was called the crisis care center's Levy. It' $1.25 billion centerpiece being 5 short state facilities for those in crisis and even at the time, supporters of that Levy said, if that's all we do, we would have failed that just fixing the crisis system doesn't do enough, so particularly in the absence of more permanent care and places to live for those with the most severe mental illness, which kind of brings us to the state hospital system and Western state, you know, Western state loss federal certification in 2018, costing the state abou $53 million and annual funding last year for related 22 counties file lawsuit against dchs for failing to provide adequate mental healthcare in Western state for those initially jailed on criminal.
 Speaker 5  (29:24)
 Charges to be found incompetent to stand trial. So I wanted to know your vision for Western state. But in particular, but also generally what's your plan for those who are facing the most severe challenges?
 Dave Reichert  (29:37)
 Well, again, I'll just go back to we have let Western state deteriorate. There was no effort made or very minimal effort paid, and that's why we ended up with the lawsuits in keeping that facility intact and improving it. Obviously we need more facilities, more healthcare, more mental healthcare, more drug rehab care, are you just talking mental healthcare specifically now and leave the drug, there's so safety at this point exactly, I'll let you figure out.
 Dave Reichert  (30:17)
 Yeah, so no I totally agree with you, but if you're on the street, you end up on fentanyl, you definitely now have a mental illness right connected with trying to overcome the drug addiction that you have or vice versa, if you go up with a drug addiction or mental illness, and you're on drugs, now you have Yeah, the 2 problems interconnected in your personality, so I really, I've been looking at some programs that people have been using across the state from Spokane to Bellevue to Seattle, and one of the programs that I really like.
 Dave Reichert  (30:54)
 It is there is a group on the streets of Seattle called the more. We love, there's another group called With dads and there's another group that, you know, very well, and that's a union gospel mission. Well, the union gospel mission has a system in place where someone walks in and says, I need help.
 Dave Reichert  (31:15)
 The first thing they do is welcome them in put their arm around them and you've got to show people that you care, okay, I'm not getting to the facilities now, but I'm going to get there for you. And so When they first come in, the rule is clean and sober, you have to be in order to stay here and we're going to provide you help to do that. And it's just a few week period of time at that first entry level contact, if you're clean and sober, for there's the first few weeks, then you move to the second phase of their program, which they actually have a second floor that they use, and you move up.
 Dave Reichert  (31:53)
 So they feel like they're in a new neighborhood, they're in a new living quarters, and they have new friends and then they start to talk about. Work therapy, physical therapy, if you need that drug therapy, mental health professionals and all those things and surrounding services that you need to be successful and moving forward in your life. Work therapy is as simple as having a light bulb.
 Dave Reichert  (32:21)
 Come on in the morning and telling you, this is morning, it's time to get out of bed, you make your bed, you mop the floor you clean the bathroom and you go to your classes and that's the beginning of responsibility and the beginning of becoming clean and sober because the social services part is still a part of their program. Once you're there in that second phase, they start to help you. Find a work.
 Dave Reichert  (32:49)
 And um, and once you found a job, you move to the third floor and this is the third phase of their program, where you can stay 6 to 8 months and now they're actively helping you if you haven't found a job by now they're actively helping you find employment, you're going out to work, you're coming back, you're still going to your classes. Some people and I've had 2, sadly, 2 nephews in my family that had been addicted to oxycodone, back in the heroin that was the biggest threat, not fentanyl, but one actually moved on to it's a Harold heroin, very, very sad to watch my brother's family go.
 Dave Reichert  (33:36)
 Through this, they went through at least 3 or 4 different treatment programs before they were cured before they became clean. It's not always the first more likely is 4 or 5 times through this, so this is a long process. It's expensive and a lot of human emotion involved again as surrounding people with compassion and love knowing that they are cared for eventually the success of this program is you have a job, you're clean and sober and you move out into a halfway home or house or you move in with family who now take you in so as far as facilities, we have plenty of facilities, empty buildings around the state that we could begin to use to house some of these people, so let's just talk about homelessness null, quick, because these 2 problems are really closely associated with our homeless problem today, and that's substant.
 Dave Reichert  (34:37)
 It's abuse, abuse and mental illness. And so in order for us to have an impact there, I think you have to triage that community. I would first start with women and children and families, and we would find homes for them homes, much like homes that we used, we still use today for domestic violence because I'm those homes are those addresses are Are kept a secret so that we protect them from their abusers we know that our women and children are the most vulnerable, and they are the ones being assaulted on the street next move to veterans, and then you move to this larger group of people that you and I are talking about right now that need A.
 Dave Reichert  (35:21)
 Facility, but they just don't need a facility, they need social services surrounding them. So let's use some of these empty buildings that we have around this state. One of those buildings that might soon be vacant I understand is evergreen university, which is in the process of being closed down if I understand correctly or is at least being recommended to be closed down.
 Dave Reichert  (35:41)
 We can adapt those facilities to use, but also again bring in those social services to surround. Individuals that need that help to move them off the street. We let this homelessness, drug abuse mental illness.
 Dave Reichert  (35:59)
 If you get to the point where uh it is it is it's hard, it's going to be very difficult to turn this ship around, but we've got to start taking some action.
 Speaker 5  (36:12)
 Just to the corporated in Oregon university, you mean evergreen State College yet yeah.
 Dave Reichert  (36:18)
 And there are, and there are there. I know that a lot of these agencies are working with realtors in the area, they're buying up single family homes, and they're finding ways to provide those homes, especially for in one instance, they're very focused on the women and children putting them in those. Homes, there are smaller, 3 or 4 bedrooms and 23 bathrooms.
 Dave Reichert  (36:43)
 They can support a family and protect a family.
 Speaker 5  (36:48)
 In just a minute, I've seen news reports that say you envisioned a future for McNeil island and the mothball Fleet of warships up in Bremerton is possibly being pressed into this, he'd expand on that just yeah.
 Dave Reichert  (37:00)
 Yeah, so I mean those are examples that I use to say all options are on the table. It's, you know, so you take it literally, but what I'm saying is that we need to be innovative. We need to put all options on the table, we need to find places for these people to be.
 Dave Reichert  (37:17)
 It is not humane to stand by and watch people in a stupid, dead stupor or passed out on the sidewalk. As part of the reason why businesses are Moving Out of our larger cities and Washington State because of the homelessness issue the crime in the middle of you know, in front of their doorstep, businesses leave jobs leave more people become homeless. More people move out of this state.
 Dave Reichert  (37:43)
 I think it's just a vicious cycle, so that's the comment made And in a in a moment to express my feelings that all options have to be on the table, but not a serious plan. Well, you know, again, all options need to be on the table, which means what I'm trying to point out here is that we've been so narrowly focused on on ideas and thoughts that have been reused and used over the past 12 years or more that I don't think people are very innovative in their thinking, and so What I like to be is a little bit experimental.
 Dave Reichert  (38:25)
 I would say, you know, bringing battleships over to Washington certainly isn't the best idea in the world because we have better facilities near to us near to families and near, you know, medical facilities, etc that can be used to house people and surround them with social services.
 Speaker 5  (38:46)
 Report changing or lowering the threshold for civil commitment.
 Dave Reichert  (38:52)
 You know, so I right now, it's, I think it's this is A72 hours still where you determine that a person is in harm to themselves or others. Yeah, I think that that would be something that I would absolutely consider looking at, because I think we're in such Dire Straits, right? Now that we might need more than A72 hour evaluation to determine exactly what the needs of a person might be the problem with that is that then if we determine that they need more help, then we have to find a place to put them, and as you said, most of those hospitals are I'm not in the shape that we need them to be in right now, you know.
 Speaker 5  (39:39)
 You know, real quick. So in homelessness, there, the studies found that folks exiting the prison system and folks exiting the foster care system both have a higher likelihood of entering into homelessness in the general population, so given that those are both state agencies that you would control as governor how would you prevent the prison system and the state foster system from feeding into homelessness.
 Dave Reichert  (40:02)
 So II um, when I chaired the human resources subcommittee on the ways and means committee in Congress foster care was one of my major issues. I'm a runaway in my senior year in high school. I lived in a 1956 Mercury for a period of time in the camp valley but I still went to school for some reason, I look back and nobody cared really where I was.
 Dave Reichert  (40:29)
 I don't know why I continue to go, but I say girls in football Frank, but that's, you know, those are those are 2 reasons. But it kept me in school, II really think when I listened to the what I did when I was in Congress on that human resources subcommittee as I called in young people who had actually been through the social services programs and I asked them what worked and what didn't work rather than call in department heads. And listen to directors or departments come in and tell me because they're looking for they're looking for money to continue to fund their programs.
 Dave Reichert  (41:06)
 But I learned from those young people, 1819 years old and have been through the world of prostitution and drug abuse. Here are the programs that worked so I shifted money to programs that worked, and we're What I would do as governor is look again re-evaluate and evaluate the programs that are currently in use and determine which of those programs that help foster kids and people who are being released from prison, which programs really are substantive, and which ones are not because I do think again there are some programs that are where our money is being wasted and we need to re-evaluate those Speaker 5  (41:51)
 And by the last question, here is over the last couple of years governors day, the legislature put more tha $2.4 billion into a whole wide range of efforts to reduce homelessness and increase housing in the state. And at the same time, 65% of response in a recent polls said that they believed housing costs would continue regardless of these kinds of investments, so I guess as governor how are you going to guarantee that washingtonians believe they're getting the most Bang for the buck for the billions of dollars that are now being spent and housing in the state?
 Dave Reichert  (42:22)
 Yeah, so I think the mistake that was made early on in this process is that people believe it was all about housing and we can see some of those failed attempts when you look at some of the vacant hotels. There's one in Renton right now that I forget was a holiday end or whatever it was. Just off of 167 and 4 0 5.
 Dave Reichert  (42:43)
 If there was money poured into that Homeless people went into that building. There was no effort to provide social services. There was no effort to Stace, you know, clean and sober in that building and the building was destroyed, so it's now boarded up, not at least the last time I drove by it a few months ago, it was boarded up and not in use so and I know that I think the figure was $143 million spent on a 120.
 Dave Reichert  (43:14)
 Some people removed from under the freeways and the estimate was ove $1 million per person than spent on trying to find someplace to live, which is ridiculous. So again, we need to it's not a spending problem, but it's a revenue problem, it's a spending problem, and it is a problem of trying to come up with a solution. To the mental illness and substance abuse, and I do think part of it has to, you have to talk about the criminal justice system and our inability to stop cartels and gangs from bringing fentanyl and drugs to the streets of our cities and into our state, that's got to be a component.
 Dave Reichert  (43:57)
 I look at all the aspects so you can't talk about the economy, you can't talk about criminal justice, and you can't talk about homelessness separately. Because they're all, in my opinion, that they're all connected, you pull on a string of homelessness, substance, abuse, mental illness. You affect criminal justice system or you affect the economy in that directly relating, of course, to small businesses on the streets of Seattle, Ic, our effort and all of these, and again, this is I know an overused analogy, but we're looking at a stool that needs 3 legs.
 Dave Reichert  (44:36)
 And we actually have a stool that all 3 legs have been cut, and that is social services, education and criminal justice, and those 3, and I've heard this from I visited 500 Washington, state narcotics investigators. I visited with social workers, truck drivers, engineers, small business owners, and that's what they're looking for an approach to these problems. That's an all-encompassing common sense of transparent to get to your point of spending where you actually see results require these organizations that are asking for the funding, they have to have metrics that they meet.
 Dave Reichert  (45:21)
 They have to show progress, and it's app to the government. It's up to us to say if we're going to be providing government dollars taxpayer money to help with these problems than we have to expect accountability from each of these agencies that are providing the service Speaker 1  (45:37)
 Thank you.
 Speaker 6  (45:40)
 You had mentioned and just touched on a drop of use and addiction when it comes to fentanyl in the state of Washington, we are expecting another record year of overdose, guests and accidental deaths from that no, another albeowit King County said a 1000 last year among the state's past bills that allow law. Enforcement and hospitals to detain children if they suspect their parents home. Neglecting them because of the use of opioids and it made narcan available to police departments, fire department schools that sort of thing as governor what would be your ideas toward addressing the problem?
 Speaker 6  (46:20)
 When it comes to drugs and oh, Gee, I would all say, how do you prevent that? How do you prevent overdose in Trump is as a governor what would you recommend some sort of strategy have?
 Dave Reichert  (46:34)
 It's a sad state that we're in when I think it was last week when 3 children were exposed to fentanyl and one died because of use in the home. We know how toxic that drug is. It's infiltrated our society in ways that we may not even know today and realize later I know the metro bus drivers and others in the community have complained of sensing those drugs on On their buses, and so they're at risk, they feel so it's back to these 3 legged school stool again.
 Dave Reichert  (47:15)
 I think you really have to have a robust education system in our schools and not just in high school, but we've got to start that education as far as the dangers especially. Of fentanyl, because who knows what the next deadly drug will be How can I get any more deadly than fentanyl? But we used to have a dare program that was somewhat effective?
 Dave Reichert  (47:40)
 I actually, when I was the sheriff cut the dare program, because I felt like school resource officers were a better Avenue and a better educational opportunity for kids and a better way to promote community policing. However, the person is whomever represents a certain profession, whether it's the medical profession or the law enforcement profession or the mental health profession, we need to start an educational program with starting in grade school as to the dangers of drugs so that kids can learn that and recognize it even in their own homes.
 Dave Reichert  (48:16)
 Because now, drug use is not just on the street, but is in the homes of the people that live in Washington State, so I really believe that education piece is an absolute necessity for the social services surrounding once a person is addicted to drugs. As we talked about earlier, this is a long process of trying to get unwound, from that addiction. And I think we need to have a supportive social services network in place where we start to put our armor on these people show that we care provide the services needed and get them off the drugs, just like I've sort of explained with the Union gospel mission again connected to homelessness, but the other piece.
 Dave Reichert  (49:03)
 That's missing right now is along with those 2 pieces, is the law enforcement piece, and I don't mean arresting people on this street. What I mean, starting out with is that the first thing that's happened in the last, in recent history, this year, that burn jag grant monies, that was specific to law enforcements, about 2 millio $2.1 million that money was taken away and redirected into other services that have done away with our bird shade. Now drug task force efforts, one of the first things I would do is redirect that money back to our burn, jag law enforcement agencies, and the reason I would do that is that their main focus is on the cartels, as I mentioned earlier and on the gangs that are bringing fentanyl into our communities.
 Dave Reichert  (50:01)
 What they focus on is the are those The top-level dealers, so we're talking about people who are coming in with these drugs, and you can see some of the seizures, they're getting seizures. Excuse me, are getting larger and larger and larger as we go along. So it's not only costly and and lives, which is the saddest part of this, and I worked on the street.
 Dave Reichert  (50:29)
 During the Green River days and and I tried to get people off the streets working with, especially young girls who are involved in the human trafficking world, surrounded by drug addiction and alcohol, a lot of those people want help, but they just can't express it. They are a danger to themselves and a danger to others A. Danger to themselves is they have no idea the stupor they're in, they cannot make a decision that's safe and beneficial for them.
 Dave Reichert  (50:59)
 They're not in the right mental state to do that, and we need to be able to help them get to the point where they understand that if they can't make that decision themselves then back to the question of whether or not we look at involuntary commitment, and then further But the biggest thing I would move, I would make is make sure those 3 stools are connected back to the law enforcement involvement here. What we've gotten away from is that we've said to ourselves in this society is that cops are bad and so as a result of that decision, we have separated the cops from our community, when back in the day, it was all about community policing, that was the big deal, let's bring the community together with the police and solve problems.
 Dave Reichert  (51:45)
 When did that not become a good thing to do when you have people in the community, especially those who have some authority to take your freedom, one of the greatest The powers in our government, as law enforcement has is take person's freedom from you, put people in jail, so why would we not want to create an opportunity where we have an educational effort to connect kids, families and police officers with teachers, parents?
 Speaker 6  (52:13)
 And did you say you cut the airport?
 Dave Reichert  (52:15)
 Where when you were I did, I won't
 Speaker 6  (52:17)
 Just to get back as that is that sort of counterwhich you just said.
 Dave Reichert  (52:20)
 I didn't know because the dare program had really much run its course, the drugs had started to change, and the focus had started the change and the curriculum didn't keep up with it. So what I did instead to be more current was switch to the school resource officer whose job was to be more it. Was actually a more intensive program because you actually had those officers embedded in the high school or the junior high.
 Dave Reichert  (52:53)
 They were there all day with the students going to class eating lunch with them playing basketball after school. These are things I used to do when I was a cop, we used to have a program that we called lighthouse and on Friday nights, my days off, I'd go down to the nearest gym and play basketball with the kids. But these are things that we have to bring back school resource officers.
 Dave Reichert  (53:16)
 As you know, samami's high school has actually hasn't It's a statue. Their school race officer, those kids respected him so much that when he left, they erected a small statue. So these relationships are absolutely critical to creating a world where we trust each other.
 Speaker 1  (53:37)
 So we've got, and we're going to ask another question, we've got a little bit
 Speaker 6  (53:42)
 Police again, the state legislature passed an initiative that allows for police officers to remove fundamental restrictions as far as chasing police chase. It is concerned for to have a reasonable suspicion that a person has valid in the law and has threatened the safety of others of what's your opinion of a lot of the Bills that were passed, starting like 2018 up to nip, and some of them were repealed and informed and all that up until Dave Reichert  (54:12)
 Yeah, well, we go back too long. I'd say those ideas were crazy, but we're starting to come back to a little bit of a sane place. I think that it sort of goes back to the discussion that we were just having where you have to place your trust in police officers you have to place your trust in somebody sometime.
 Dave Reichert  (54:35)
 You have to place your trust in your parents, you have to place your trust in teachers and people in authority, you know, we have to place our trust in government even though that's hard to do sometimes and having been a part of that, I can understand why, so when you place trust in people in authority. Yes. There are laws have to be laws that keep them You can keep them honest and keep them in a world where they, where they raise their right hand and they take an ode to uphold a constitution that means they have to obey the Constitution, that means they have to obey the laws.
 Dave Reichert  (55:16)
 I get it, we hold police officers accountable, we have to do that. Cops don't want to work with bad cops. I mean, I've testified against bad cops in trial and fired bad cops, you might think back to wto Frank, where I fired a guy who kicked the backhand of a young lady over who was at first.
 Speaker 6  (55:40)
 Today, but you see incidents like George Floyd yet 4, yeah, like bad apples in it. Yeah, that was sort of it. One thing in Rankin County, the sheriff's department 6 bad apple showed up at 1 hour, so how do you if it sounds like it's more systemic, then a bad apple well, and it's about how long I was like somebody was protecting each other.
 Dave Reichert  (55:59)
 How long ago was Floyd? It'll be 40 years, okay, so I think we progress a little bit.
 Speaker 6  (56:06)
 A lot of those pills came out of there, and they'd been repealed back to me, and that was my question was your second, yeah, they may, yeah, adjustments in response to that, and they sort of pulled back on it.
 Speaker 1  (56:16)
 In which performance do you think were good ideas? Which reforms do you think were not good ideas?
 Dave Reichert  (56:28)
 Okay, I'll answer it this way. There are actually 2, the 2 things that are keeping police officers from being hired in Washington State today. So we're about 400 down spd 150 King County and you can go throughout the state and find the numbers are down, there's 2 reasons why it's not money you're not going to hire police officers.
 Dave Reichert  (56:51)
 I'm just being real with you here, you're not going to hire cops with a hiring bonus of 50 grand you're not going to get them to re-up and for $50000, it isn't going to happen. Cops become cops not to get rich, they become police officers to help people 99.9% of police officers are good people, there's always that. I'd make it 1% that well, give us a bad name.
 Dave Reichert  (57:19)
 And that is those are the people we have to weed out. So the 2 things that I would change. Well, I would ensure first of all, number one that qualified immunity stays intact and I'll explain why in just a minute.
 Dave Reichert  (57:35)
 So qualified immunity, of course, protects them from being sued, civilly and losing their house to property and everything number 2, the change from language in-law today went from? A, what would a reasonable police officer do an instantaneous situation? A snap of the finger decision versus a reasonable person?
 Dave Reichert  (58:03)
 A reasonable person generally speaking across the state does not have the training that a reasonable police officer has so a reasonable police officer standard. Illegal standard in-law would be the correct language to protect police officers from criminal liability. However, it doesn't protect them if they broken the law.
 Dave Reichert  (58:28)
 So if you've acted in good faith without malice, those are the key phrases so and I know you get nervous when I tell stories, but I'm a storytelle and I know I can feel sensitive in the room, however. That there is an importance to some of the stories. They illustrate an excellent point.
 Dave Reichert  (58:50)
 Led a team into a drug search warrant situation where my assignment was to go to the bathroom, I kicked in the door along with my team announced ourselves. We followed the rules in the law went into this drug house. I went off to the right, went into the bathroom and there sat on the toilet was a man who had a needle in his arm and the rubber band around his bicep just shot app some heroin, I got out looked at him, said, stand up Raise your hands above your head.
 Dave Reichert  (59:21)
 It took him several times to follow those directions. Finally, did it now he's standing there in the bathroom mute, put my gun pointer at him and all of a sudden he's not paying attention to me. I can see his eyes are glazed over trying to make some sense to him all of a sudden.
 Dave Reichert  (59:37)
 His hand goes behind a 1/2 wall. I'm going to ask you. Would you shoot him that you don't know what he's reaching for I can't see his hand is he going for a bar soap toilet paper orca?
 Dave Reichert  (59:49)
 I don't know, boom comes out. He does have a gun, would you shoot him now?
 Speaker 6  (59:56)
 Would you I was out there? I don't know I'm obvious I am a bear.
 Dave Reichert  (59:59)
 But just imagine now I understand it's hypothetical for you, but this is real life for me. So here's the guy standing there with a needle in his arm and a gun in his hand all he has to do is go boom to me now if the officer shot him back in my day, that would be a justified shooting gun in hand blazed over high on heroin. I don't know what he's going to do I didn't shoot him though.
 Dave Reichert  (01:00:23)
 I still continue to yell at my idea of my reasonableness. Was the training that I had confidence that I had. I knew I could handle that situation, so what did he do after a few more directives, he finally leaned back and dropped the gun on the toilet life saved the man went to jail.
 Dave Reichert  (01:00:45)
 My point is that when you ask a question like that. Police officers have to make these split second decisions and those split second life-and-death decisions should be protected in a way that's under the reasonable officer standard and not a reasonable person. A reasonable person may have decided in that case to shoot him when his hand went behind the wall, right?
 Dave Reichert  (01:01:11)
 Or a reasonable person may have said, you know what I'm just going to turn around and run away. And that's not what we want. Our law enforcement officers to do these guys were selling drugs to our kids on the street?
 Dave Reichert  (01:01:22)
 Our job is to stop that cops have a job to do, and sometimes it's ugly, but let me make it very clear. You look back at my record. I held people accountable in the sheriff's office when they broke her, especially if they came in and lied to me, I fired him it wasn't a, it wasn't you get 3 weeks off you're fired, I was pretty strict.
 Dave Reichert  (01:01:45)
 I thought I was fair and that's the way we need the best way we need to be with our police officers. You've got to be strict, but you got to be fair. The other thing I would say about law enforcement is, we've got to provide them with some technology to do those too so when you talk specifically about pursuits, theirs technology could help us catch these criminals without we can't afford to have a 100 cars a day stolen.
 Dave Reichert  (01:02:11)
 There's no accountability. There's no consequences for the actions of people, a 100 cars a day. Come on, that's not right.
 Speaker 1  (01:02:19)
 So listen.
 Dave Reichert  (01:02:21)
 Okay, I can go public.
 Speaker 7  (01:02:24)
 We keep further into our futures. You had said that you are in favor of initiative 2124, which would repeal the law cares long-term insurance program saying that there's nothing on this initiative that will take away long-term care, but if folks don't have to put money into it that will just kill it, right? I mean, and if that were to happen, whoever's in the governor's office, does that mean that that person would just disregard sort of maybe out of the backwater, we're not going to worry about long-term care at all.
 Speaker 7  (01:03:05)
 What would you replace it with if you had the chance, or how would we look toward keeping taking good care of washingtonians, when they age Dave Reichert  (01:03:15)
 Well, let's be honest about that legislation. First of all, what kind of benefit does it really provide? It's exactly.
 Dave Reichert  (01:03:22)
 So if my idea would be let people have the choice as to whether or not they want to be a participant in that because the benefit really isn't there, so we're paying for something that really isn't going to be there. So that's number one honestly about the legislation number 2, if we really intend to help people with their retirement and their long-term care needs, then we need to be honest about how much that is going to cost where that money's going to come from and how we're going to how we're going to achieve the goal that we've set.
 Dave Reichert  (01:03:58)
 Before us, and that's going to take conversation and that's one of the things I want to bring. As the governor I want to start to have conversations, the more and more I travel this state, the more I hear from almost every profession we have been at the table, we've not been heard our voices are not heard. I just give To get up and walk away, I'm no longer participating in boards advisory committees or any of that because I've been involved and been engaged, but my ideas are not heard they're not even asked for so on that particular piece of legislation, it's not so much about the issue of long.
 Dave Reichert  (01:04:33)
 Term care we all want to to be able to provide that for people who can't do it, but what's the best way to do it? And let's be honest about how we approach these problems and how much it will cost and what kind of care we can provide?
 Speaker 1  (01:04:48)
 Did you want to ask about the other Okay, okay. Um, so I wanted to ask you about abortion and in the questionnaire we sent you. You said you, I'm not interested in changing state law, but I'm wondering if you are willing to or interested in maintaining some of the supports that have that the current administration has put in place such as ordering mythoppressive.
 Dave Reichert  (01:05:17)
 I can't pronounce it either that abortion pill, okay.
 Speaker 1  (01:05:20)
 So that to make sure that there's enough in my state or but also, how Will you help the healthcare system accommodate folks that are coming to Russian state to seek abortions and make sure that washing residents get that care?
 Dave Reichert  (01:05:36)
 The answer, yes.
 Speaker 1  (01:05:37)
 Okay, so yes, you'll do all okay, all right, is that a hard decision to viewer?
 Dave Reichert  (01:05:46)
 All right, okay. I got another story you asked for no, here's the deal. I haven't changed.
 Dave Reichert  (01:05:57)
 I remember in the mid-seventies, so this is, you know, our first abortion law, I think was 1970, but in the mid-seventies, they had, you know, has been codified several times in-law and most recently, 5 pieces of legislation in the last legislature, so When I was a patrol cop, they passed a new abortion law and so the pro-life people came out protested the abortion clinics and my job was to stand they were blocking the sidewalks and blocking the driveways. My job was to stand and keep the pro-life people away from the driveways away from the sidewalks and keep the abortion clinic open my personal I believe in my, you know, it was my personal belief and I don't intend and/or desire to push my personal belief on other people, I really believe we all have free will and my personal belief again is that free will comes from my God and that we can choose to.
 Dave Reichert  (01:07:00)
 We should be choosing those things. To look, and the other thing is, the law is the law, and I don't think we should be making those decisions. I shouldn't be making those decisions for the women of Washington State.
 Speaker 1  (01:07:11)
 All right. Thank you. I have one last question, then we'll let you sum up, and we're asking everybody this question, who won the presidency in 2020, and who are you running for who are you voting for for President this year?
 Dave Reichert  (01:07:30)
 Well, okay, first of all, I believe elections are fair. So, uh I have no I have no disagreement about who in the presidency in 2020 I have, you know, people like to talk about the Dina Rossi races. But look, the votes are counted.
 Dave Reichert  (01:07:50)
 The votes are counted, and I have faith in the current system that we and there are a lot of conservatives, I've talked to who believe that the current system is moving to more and more fair, there's beginning, some trust is beginning to be built. As far as who I'm going to support, I'm not going to let people nationalize this campaign. That's my answer.
 Dave Reichert  (01:08:16)
 And the reason I'm not going to do that, it divides us even further, so my my focus is what are the problems in Washington State, how can we fix the problems in Washington State, how did we get here in the first place and we're going to fix and what's broken and do what's right? And I'm really focused, and that's not just a political answer, I passionately feel that way and I don't want to be distracted by all this stuff, even though it's going on, we're all going to be watching the presidential races, but I'm just not going to let that interfere with what I'm trying to do here.
 Dave Reichert  (01:08:55)
 Because it immediately divines us immediately puts a label on people and I don't want the label, my bottom line to my candidacy and Congress and operating as sheriff has always been. I want to be inclusive of the entire community.
 Speaker 5  (01:09:12)
 I was going to ask a question on that, though we'll meeting if you're elected governor so you're a governor of Washington State and there's a Trump presidency and there's a Biden presidency as governor of the state of Washington, which present, which administration would you find it synchronizers? Better with what you're trying to do. And we're Washington.
 Dave Reichert  (01:09:35)
 I can work with both of those guys. So I know Donald Trump and I know Joe Biden. I've traveled to with Joe Biden when he was a center to Jordan, Israel, not he and I didn't go to Israel, Jordan and Iraq and so-and-so I, the President, I can work with I have a reputation if you go back to my congressional years, I still know a lot of people in the House of Representatives and in the senate and I think as governor that's a huge benefit for the people of Washington State, I burn no bridges with my Democrat friends in Congress and I've burnt no bridges with Joe Biden and I burnt no bridges with Donald Trump.
 Speaker 5  (01:10:19)
 So you're saying that both bring pluses and minuses, but in the end wash out, so there's no difference between them, but no no Dave Reichert  (01:10:26)
 I don't know what I'm saying is there? There's, I mean tremendous differences, that would be ridiculous to say I'm just saying that I could work with either one of them.
 Speaker 5  (01:10:35)
 So you're in the perfect, so it's not a proud to say that they've both bring classes and minuses, and so it's Dave Reichert  (01:10:41)
 You don't, yeah, I mean I will be able to work with both presidences. But presidents who are resulted
 Speaker 6  (01:10:49)
 You just state your views on abortion in the abortion field. You think that would be, I'm fall in line with what President Trump would be about?
 Dave Reichert  (01:10:58)
 Well, I, you know, President Trump has his beliefs. I have my beliefs. I have my, I think you can go back to Speaker 6  (01:11:06)
 I think what I got a political agenda, not what they believe, but what they said they would do as their political agenda.
 Dave Reichert  (01:11:11)
 You know, he can do what he wants to do. We're going to, we're going to focus on Washington State President Trump President Biden. They have political agendas, obviously, but as the governor of the state of Washington, I'm going to be focused on what's happening here.
 Speaker 1  (01:11:25)
 So declined to answer their preference.
 Dave Reichert  (01:11:27)
 Okay. No, yeah. That's, I mean, that's, but that's really that's reality, that's where we are today.
 Dave Reichert  (01:11:34)
 We've got to fix what's happening right here.
 Speaker 1  (01:11:37)
 So, uh, we've come to the end if you'd like to take a couple minutes or there are things that we should have talked about, that you've or that you think we should have talked about or anything you'd like to leave us with.
 Dave Reichert  (01:11:53)
 Well, let's see, I have a whole speech I could get
 Speaker 1  (01:11:59)
 Only one story.
 Dave Reichert  (01:12:01)
 You know, II um, I have. I've met so many people across this state. This has been just a suspended joy, a joyful experience, and there is an excitement, and I'm not going to exaggerate here at all I want to be if you're realistic with you.
 Dave Reichert  (01:12:25)
 There is an excitement I have never felt in any campaign. Could I have ever run. For governor I mean, for political office, this campaign ISIS one where I think people are, I'm from across the political spectrum are looking for a pause button or a reset or a balance to government, rather than a rubber stamp government, 1 of the things that I would try to move in.
 Dave Reichert  (01:13:03)
 The legislature is to limit the governor's term to 2 terms. I think it's fair for I think it's fair for the people in Washington State to have that choice every 8 years. I don't think we need to Crown a king for 12 or 16 years, I have never made a promise when I ran for office and I'm not making promises today.
 Dave Reichert  (01:13:26)
 Except one And that is, I'm not staying 12 years, but the 3 things that I am really focused on is the criminal justice system, a homelessness and the economy. The fourth I would include, is education, those 4 things are what I really want to focus on and I think that we can make progress in all 4 of those major areas I want to create A government that I think is going to be starkly different than the one that we've seen over the last several years, it's going to be 1 that's inclusive that people feel a part of reaching out to the community.
 Dave Reichert  (01:14:12)
 This has been my style throughout the sheriff's office and knows how do you judge when you come into a room like this and you all sit here and you interview a person? How do you judge a man's integrity? How you judge a man's intent, how to judge's honesty and sincerity about his job.
 Dave Reichert  (01:14:32)
 For me, I think what you have to do is look back over a person's career and look at the accomplishments. Look at the comments that I've made, and what you see is consistency, in my career. I haven't changed what you see is what you get you both know you've, you've been in these meetings.
 Dave Reichert  (01:14:53)
 I'm not saying anything different than I said 5 years ago when I left Congress. I did not check out. Of the world, you may know, I've been in Central America or prior to announcing governorship, I run, I've been in Central America, working on human trafficking, and I was in Guatemala, El Salvador Honduras, Costa Rica, Panama and working on setting up databases on DNA databases and working with a new technology called rapid DNA, and so I've been engaged and involved And um, the only reason that I have entered this race.
 Dave Reichert  (01:15:33)
 Because I care about the state. I've been married 53 years, I have 3 children. I have 6 grandchildren.
 Dave Reichert  (01:15:41)
 I have 5 great-grandchildren and I'm doing this for them, and I'm doing it for the people of Washington State my phone, it was ringing off the hook when Mr. Hensley announced his retirement and so here I am, I really enjoyed this. I did thank you.
 Speaker 1  (01:16:05)
 But if we weren't hurt, we weren't tough on you.
 Dave Reichert  (01:16:08)
 Oh no, yeah, you had tough questions, but they're, they're easy answers, you know, is if you're honest, if you're not making up stories. They're easy answers solving the problems. I'm not going to be easy and if anybody says they are, they're not telling you the truth.