https://www.kuow.org/stories/the-race-for-governor-dave-reichert



Hi Dave, thank you so much for being here. 

You're welcome. Thanks for having us. 

Okay, let's launch into it. Why do you think you are the best candidate to be the governor of Washington State and we have limited time, so we're looking for kind of that elevator pitch here? 

Well, I have I've served at the air force I've served in 33 years. In-law enforcement, 14 years in Congress, I've served from a patrol officer to jail guard to hostage negotiator to swat team commander homicide, detective elite investigator with a great team of people on the Ukraine river serial murder case. As most people Are aware of very blessed and fortunate to be elected to sheriff and be the leader of a about a 1200 person organization, the largest sheriff's office in the state and the 12th largest in the nation and then be elected to Congress for 14 years, holding for chairmanships and a ranking membership. 

Chairmanship of the emergency preparedness, subcommittee and homeland security ranking member on Intel. And also moving to ways and means, I was the chairman of the trade committee chairman of the tax committee, chairman of the human resources subcommittee left there went to work in Central America, Guatemala, El Salvador Honduras, Costa Rican Panama on human trafficking and a new technology trying to implement across the country and connected with the databases. We were building in Central America. 

Rapid DNA and when governor rinsley decided to not run again, I uh, I just felt with all the experience that I have and especially in the criminal justice system and working with people on the street and those suffering mentally illness and drug addiction, especially working during the green rubber days with No youth and youth crime I just, I just felt that this was the right time for for me to enter the race. I've been asked to run since the year 2000 we are recycled since then? 

And this was the right time, let's talk about public safety top issue on the minds of voters you worked as a King County sheriff for many years, every major candidate for governor right now is saying, on the stump that there is a problem with police staffing in this state and that we need to increase the number of law enforcement officers, your opponent Attorney General Bob Ferguson. Recently said that he wants to attract new recruits to the state police forces, he has a plan that he says will funnel $100 million in grant money to local governments to attract new recruits. 

What is your plan to increase police staffing, and why is it better than the other side? 

Well, first of all, I think we have to point out that Mr. Ferguson has not been a supporter of law enforcement for the last 12 years. He's been in office. 

He supported defund of the police, he supported legalizing drugs on the streets of Seattle and so there are a lot of things that go contrary really to the comments that he's made of supporting law enforcement number 2. If money does not is not the reason why police officers become police officers, you don't get rich by being a cop, I know that a personal experience you become a police officer because you want to make a difference or you want to help people you want to make the community safe and you want to protect our families and our children and so money is not the answer he, you know, it's a great political A statement now let's throw more money at the problem. 

The answer is, number one and I know that I've been criticized for this by Mr. Ferguson, because it's so obvious and has not been even addressed in fact, ignored, really by him, and that is, Hey, how about we just enforce the loss that the people of Washington State have passed through their representatives? And support the law enforcement officers who are hired to enforce those laws number one we need to elect officials who in those communities support cops number 2, we need to hold police officers accountable, absolutely 110% agree with that I have disciplined and fired my sheriff sheriff's deputies over the years. 

That I was the sheriff of King County. But 2 things are, it's very important to ensure that officers have to protect themselves and that is qualified immunity. And then also just the protection of of being charged with the crime themselves while they're making split, second, life-and-death decisions. 

But I'm not saying that they should be immune for prosecution or anything like that, because you know that some people might be listening to that, and that's the first thing they go to, I'm just talking about. Nah, I'm hoping that people would stop and think about having to make a decision when a hand disappears behind a wall or under a seat and you don't know what he or she is reaching for and you have to make a decision with all the other circumstances surrounding your decision. Do you pull your gun? 

Do you fire the gun? You threatened to fire the gun. Do you think? 

Do you have to take physical action and in that physical action, as someone hurt there needs to be some protection there, and the officers need to be supported in those life-and-death decisions. I've been there. I've had my throat slit in domestic violence 45 stitches in my neck, I've had guns pointed at me at me have not fired at anyone, but those are 2 things we need to make sure happen. 

Those 2 things are really the main reasons that cops are not coming to Washington State more than 500 officers down in Seattle, a 150 down in King County, the other thing that I would do is bring back the money from the burn jag grant, um, that's specific we targeted or drug task force. Efforts here in Washington State, they've been redirected to special interest rather than to the drug task force. Historically, that's where that money is gone, you will not make progress on the fentanyl deaths and overdoses in Washington State until you start to address the cartels from Guatemala El Salvador. 

Other Central and south American countries, like Mexico as they bring fentanyl into our city's small and large across this state. 

Steve, let me just jump in because I want to ask a couple questions about what we're talking about here. So voters passed initiative 940 in 2018. It requires more training for police officers, and it also lowered the bar for prosecuting those officers who used deadly force previously prosecutors had to show that an officer acted. 

With malice, we were the only state requiring that now that standard is different and now prosecutors have to show that the deadly Force was outside. What a reasonable officer was it would do in this situation. So are you saying you want this current law to stay in place or do you want to change it back to the old standard. 

I think we know what we need to do is we need to make sure that the officers are protected operating in good faith and without malice, uh, with a good with good intent. Um, but I do think that the standard of AA reasonable person versus a reasonable officer is different and we might want to look. At and I would look forward to having that discussion with the Washington association of police chiefs and sheriffs, and with With walkops, which is the the Union representation of all police officers across the state to see whether or not they're satisfied with a reasonable officer standard versus the reasonable person standard, and I think they're more inclined to go with a reasonable officer standard, because that's the standard. 

That they make those decisions on the standard that they're trained to make those decisions on. So I think that would be the only caveat in the question that you asked me that I would be. 

Point out and then the other clarification, so there is qualified immunity still in Washington State. The legislature's looked at revoking it, but they have failed. Are you saying that there is a danger to qualified immunity here in Washington that you would be fighting as governor. 

Uh, I'm saying there have been attempts by the legislature to eliminate qualified immunity and I do I would support keeping qualified immunity in place. You know, this can become a discussion, really, you and I can have this discussion and it can be about these specific issues. But you've got to look at the broader picture of Hiring police officers, so, if you, if our goal is to hire more police officers, these are the things that need to happen, these are the things, this is the content of what police officers are very concerned about. 

They don't feel supported by their elected officials. I've spoke with an attorney just a week ago, said that he was in court and it's the officer on trial. The questions, go to the officer why in the world do we? 

Are you bringing this person in? You know, the point is like? Well, he's only stolen 50 cars, why are we bringing this person into prosecutive and the officer has to explain why, yes, your honor this guy is here because he's stolen 50 cars, so we, you know, there's no accountability, no responsibility, there are no consequences any longer. 

And and I think we go back to the a bigger question. And that is a is, you know, enforce the law so on the burn jag monies, just to get back to that real quick, you cannot enforce the laws. You cannot prove out that and all from hitting the streets, if you don't allow those task force efforts to happen And you know, the the other thing is that they are letting prisoners out of prison early so we have a parole board that is more interested in releasing prisoners from prison. 

I'm all about rehabilitation. I've worked in the jails before and I've visited prisons before, and I've of course worked 33 years as a police officer. I've also You don't have the opportunity to counsel and and guide some prisoners and people who I've arrested and hoping that they make the right decision. 

Sometimes law enforcement really, is the criminal justice system as a gateway to all the social services, someone has to hit rock bottom, sometimes that's sad to see that happen. And I personally witnessed that But I, you know, I visited a jail in again, sheland county a couple of weeks ago. 

I don't mean to I don't mean to derail. I just, we have a lot of topics, do you mind if we move on really quickly to like homelessness and 

If you ask me about criminal justice, I could talk 

I know I know you can't 

The point is that I could probably outpack any of the other candidates on this topic have 

So when that's noted here, your former sheriff and you know, you obviously have a lot to a lot to contribute on that front, but let's move on just because we have limited time and we want to bring up some other issues. Homelessness has steadily increased in Washington State since 2016. The state has put ove $4 billion into housing and homelessness programs over the last couple budget cycles, you have a plan to address homelessness that includes appointing a director of homelessness who would more closely watch how money is spent. 

You're also proposing an audit of all state-funded homelessness programs to eliminate ineffective. Ones? What is your concern right now about how money is being spent in an effort to get people housing in this state? 

One of the first meetings I had was with the the CEOs of some of the major corporations here in Washington State at the Microsoft campus and 1 of the members of that meeting shared with me that they had spent 700 780 million dollars to help with a homelessness problem. And I. Ask this person. 

How did that work? And he told me? He said, you know, it was a total, a waste of money back when they first started addressing this issue, it was all about housing, it cannot be about housing. 

It has to be about housing and it has to be about social services, the surrounding of social services, putting your arm around a person holding their hand caring for them and taking them through the process of recovery step-by-step by step, we didn't get to this point overnight with the crime problem, because you really can't separate the criminal justice, public safety from homelessness or from the economy, they're all interconnected, so yes, I would appoint a director of homelessness. Someone needs to be held accountable. 

There is no accountability in the current government. Who do you go to back when I was the sheriff, I was a member, a group with Ron Sims nor mailing, who, as you know, were the county executive and the prosecuting attorney back then and other leaders in the community and our goal. It was to end homelessness in 10 years, obviously that didn't happen, but one of the things I learned during that experience is that there are a lot of agencies out there, duplicating services and also agencies out there that exist only to acquire money from state, 4 county or federal grant, monies and not make any Dent at all on the problem that we're trying to solve. 

So that's why the audit needs to take place is to identify those services that are being that are redundant, and there's money being wasted and/or they are not providing the service that they promise to service and then. Thirdly, we need to have it. We need to have that. 

A process in place, and this would be the best. The director's responsibility to coordinate those activities between the different agencies and also then demand results statistics. I'm showing results and successes so that we can fund those programs that succeed. 

I gotta ask you about a conversation you had on Como news, and I want to know if you were serious about this, you suggested rounding up adult men who are living on the street and putting them in a large facility such as Evergreen State College or McNeil island what did you mean? By that, I mean, did you really want to do that to address our homelessness crisis? 

Yeah, tell me what's wrong with that. 

I think there's constitutional issues with that. You're saying you're gonna round people up who are on the street. 

No. No okay. That's your point you know, that's ridiculous, because there is there are constitutional protection's in place for freedom, uh, you're you're right to be yourself to be where you are. 

But there's also laws that govern the freedoms of other people living in a community and there are also laws that require. Us to help people who need help and can't help themselves. There are laws that say that if you are considered to be or deemed to be Um, um, a danger to yourself or to others, we can place you in 72 hour protected cussi, have you evaluated for 72 hours? 

And if further help is needed, then that's determined by a medical professional so, but does that 

I describe everything an unhoused man. That's on the street right now. 

Oh no. Absolutely not look, I've been on the street. I've talked of all those people, man and thousands and thousands of times and that's a question. 

That's no, it does not apply at all. Their people are not the same in real life people are not the same in any real life that we live on this Earth. We're all different and there are people on the street who are there. 

For 4 different reasons in the Green River case, a lot of those young people were there because they were victimized at home, they were victimized once again on the street, by the pimps that put them out there under human trafficking, and they became drug addicts and also connected to mental illness. And then they were victimized once again by the criminal justice system? I understand this clearly so when people try to twist my words. 

To mean, something ridiculous is pretty frustrating, because usually, it's people who haven't even talked to a homeless person. They've seen videos on TV. I've lived on the screen myself as a child as a 16-year-old boy, I know how that feels and I know how the young girls and the young boys who were living on the street. 

During the 80s and the 90s fell too, because I worked mostly with them, I worked closely with their families and with their lives, foster care parents and others appeared for them. The boys and girls club etc, but the point is that we need a place to help people we will our veterans. Don't deserve to live in tents under the freeway. 

Our children and Mother's don't So we have families that are on the street they don't want to be on the street. I was with a group of people I spent 8 hours from Aurora Avenue, down 3rd Avenue down into soda. 

I'm so sorry, I just because my love 

I gotta finish this part of this part and I'm finishing this park, please, The Salvation Army and I know you'll probably edit this, but Salvation Army is doing an awesome job. They're housing 400 men 400 and some women Vienna facility. What is different in housing, some of those men. 

Evergreen college, if they close it down, it's just another building, it's got a full kitchen. It's ready to go and needs a few alterations to house people. What's the difference between putting them in Salvation Army 400 people or a vacant building in Olympia, I don't understand the complication there. 

Let me ask about the issue of abortion. It's become a big conversation after the Dobb's decision, of course, governor Jay insley has made protecting access to reproductive services a priority for his administration. You've said in a campaign ad that you would not change state law on the issue and that you would follow the lead of the legislature when it comes to abortion access. 

As we've seen in the past few years, though governors do have some powers Uber what kind of access happens in their state, for example, the state here in Washington has purchased a 3 year supply of mifepristone, the drug most commonly used in abortions in case of shifting federal policy, the governor has signed a number of laws, you know, reiterating that That you know, there would be protection for abortion access approved millions of dollars in budget to support abortion care. So people in this state are really accustomed to a governor who is taking a proactive approach in ensuring that there is reproductive freedom in the state. 

What would your approach be. 

Um up, I've, I've said clearly what my approach is, and that is that there has been a law in Washington State since 1970. This is a question that's been asked and answered has been recodified and recodified in-law by the people who live in Washington State, the supreme. Court made it very clear that this is a state issue. 

And I don't believe that an elected official. A politician should be the one making a decision for the voters of Washington State on this issue, so this is a decision if any other legislation is to be considered A This is a decision that we be put to the people I have no intention at all in doing anything at all in the abortion failed to restrict abortions for women in Washington State. So, yes, I support the 5 bills that were passed this last legislation and I support the past legislation that has allowed women to have. 

Abortions here up to 24 weeks with some with uh. In 24 weeks is the viability of life, and so Ah, that's that's where I'm at. 

Former Congressman former sheriff Dave Reichert is a candidate for Washington states governor he is, you know, among the 4 candidates we're speaking to this week and the first one in our series. Thank you very much for joining me today, Dave, I've really appreciated the conversation. 

Hey, thank you.
