THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Governor Janet Mills. It's good to see you, and thank you for your leadership and your friendship.

Well, good afternoon, everyone. It is an honor to join leaders from around the world as we conclude the first day of the Summit For Democracy.

As I have discussed with many of you, I believe our world is at the start of a new era -- an era with new challenges, an era with new opportunities, an era that is defined by interconnection and interdependence.

In this new era, I believe that democracy is our world's best hope not because it is perfect but because of its principles, because it delivers for the people.

Democracy protects human rights and promotes human dignity. It is a means to create peace and prosperity. It is a means to solve our greatest challenges, from COVID-19 to the climate crisis.

It is, then, of particular concern, of urgent concern that democracy is presently under threat and, for 15 years, has been on the decline.

Around the world, autocrats have become emboldened. Human rights violations have multiplied. And corruption is undermining progress. And misinformation is undermining public confidence.

And so, it is incumbent on each of us, individually and collectively, to take action.

Here in the United States, we know that our democracy is not immune from threats. January 6th looms large in our collective conscience.

And the anti-voter laws that many states have passed are part of an intentional effort to exclude Americans from participating in our democracy.

In our democracy, in every democracy, a representative government is foundational and the right to vote is fundamental.

And so, ensuring every eligible American can access that right is a top priority for our administration and an effort that I am proud to lead.

We know that the right to vote cannot be taken for granted. At every turn, it must be safeguarded and strengthened. And so, our Department of Justice has increased its efforts to enforce federal voting rights laws. And our executive branch is taking further action to strengthen the right to vote.

But executive action alone is not enough. Our Congress must act.

Right now, there are two bills before the United States Congress: the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.

Taken together, these bills would help to ensure that every eligible American can vote and have their vote counted in a free, fair, and transparent election.

Today, as the world watches, the President and I reiterate our call for swift passage of these bills.

We know our work at home will make us stronger for the world. We also know that the strength of our democracy is tied to the strength of democracies worldwide.

And so, we are equally committed to combating threats to democracy wherever they exist -- threats such as corruption, which corrodes public trust, fuels inequality, and can destabilize nations and entire regions.

On Monday, our administration released our first-ever U.S. Strategy on Countering Corruption. Through this strategy, we will deepen our understanding and response to the transnational dimension of this threat, which I know, from my work with leaders around the world, is critical.

In addition, because human rights and democracy are inextricably linked, the United States has also rejoined the United Nations Human Rights Council.

Together, we must protect the rights of people with disabilities, the rights of people of color, the rights of Indigenous peoples, LGBTQI+ rights, and women's rights.

In March, I addressed the U.N. Commission on the Status of Women. And I will say what I said then: I strongly believe the status of women is the status of democracy, the exclusion of women in decision-making is a marker of a flawed democracy, and the full participation of women strengthens democracy.

To that end, our administration has launched the first National Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality.

We are working to defend equal rights, including reproductive rights, which are at grave risk here in the United States. And we are working with partners around the world to promote the full participation of women and girls.

So, I will conclude today with a short story. So, this week, as you know, Olaf Scholz took office as the Chancellor of Germany. And the President and I both look forward to working with him as we did his predecessor.

And on that point, back in July -- this last July -- I welcomed German Chancellor Angela Merkel to my residence here in Washington, D.C. We spoke, then, about the status of democracy in our respective nations and around the world. And I mentioned my belief that democracy is marked by both its strength and its fragility.

It was a thoughtful and a powerful conversation. And it was also very personal. The Chancellor shared what it was like to live behind the Iron Curtain, and I shared how the Civil Rights Movement influenced my upbringing.

Though we grew up in different times and places, under very different circumstances, the importance of democracy in our own lives was and remains clear.

As we address the present threats to democracy, as we work to prove its value and vitality in this new era, as leaders of our world, we must all remember that democracy is neither

an abstract concept nor a static state.

Democracy lives in the people. Democracy is the people. And democracy is our best hope.

So, as we go forward, let us do the work that democracy requires. Let us go to work, let us deliver together for the people.

Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good morning, everyone. Good morning. It is an honor to welcome all of you to this first-ever White House Day of Action on maternal health.

And I want to thank everyone gathered today -- the members of our Cabinet, including Secretary Xavier Becerra and CMS Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure.

And I want to thank the members of Congress, the state and local policymakers, the business leaders, the nonprofit leaders, the medical professionals, the community organizers, the patient advocates -- all of you. Thank you for your leadership and your tireless work. And thank you for your partnership and your commitment to take bold action to improve maternal health.

This challenge is urgent and it is important, and it will take all of us.

And to put it simply, here's how I feel about this: In the United States of America, in the 21st century, being pregnant and giving birth should not carry such great risk.

But the truth is women in our nation -- and this is a hard truth -- women in our nation are dying. Before, during, and after childbirth, women in our nation are dying at a higher rate than any other developed nation in our world.

And we know that, for some women, the risk is much higher. When we know that, we should do something about it. When we know that, today, Black women are three times as likely to die from pregnancy-related complications, we should do something about that.

When we know that Native American women are more than twice as likely to die from pregnancy-related complications, we got to do something about that.

When women who live in rural America, which has many maternal care deserts -- meaning there are no maternal care facilities -- and when we know that women in rural America, for that and other reasons, are about 60 percent more likely to die from pregnancy-related complications, we need to do something about that.

And think about it: Regardless of income level, regardless of education level, Black women, Native women, women who live in rural areas are more likely to die or be left scared or scarred from an experience that should be safe and should be a joyful one.

And we know a primary reason why this is true: systemic inequities. Those differences in how people are treated, based on who they are. And they create significant disparities in our healthcare system.

And when it comes to pregnancy and childbirth, these systemic inequities can be a matter of life and death.

So, let us all say unequivocally: Maternal mortality and morbidity is a serious crisis and one that endangers both public health and economic growth, which means everyone is impacted by it. Because just think about it: Mothers are the backbone of our economy, and their children are the future of our economy.

We know that when women do not get the healthcare they need, families suffer, communities suffer, and our nation suffers.

In fact, one estimate suggests that the direct and indirect cost of poor maternal healthcare could total more than $30 billion -- $30 billion -- in a single year.

By the same measure, we know that when we invest in women's health, when we invest in maternal health, economic productivity increases and socioeconomic outcomes improve.

It is clear: A healthy economy requires healthy mothers and healthy babies. I will repeat that: A healthy economy requires healthy mothers and healthy babies.

And that is why, today, on behalf of our administration, I am issuing a nationwide Call to Action to both the public and the private sector.

Through this Call to Action, federal agencies, businesses, and non-profits will join together and will work together to solve this crisis.

So, today, to kick off this effort, our Department of Health and Human Services and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid are launching a new initiative to designate birthing-friendly hospitals.

So, this is a brand-new designation and the first designation that rates a hospital based on the quality of its maternal healthcare.

In addition, more than 20 companies and non-profits have pledged to invest more than $20 million in maternal health efforts domestically and more than $150 million globally.

They have pledged to invest in remote-care monitors for rural communities, to invest in innovative care models for the postpartum period, to invest in education programs for maternal health providers, and so much more.

And we will build on these actions in the coming weeks and months.

Now, I know we can all agree -- we should all agree -- that action is long overdue. We have all heard the stories -- and some here have lived the stories -- stories of women who experienced pain, only to be ignored. Stories of women who experienced post-partum depression, only to be dismissed. Stories of women who had to be put on life support or receive a blood transfusion after blood transfusion, and could not hold

their newborn baby.

These stories should compel all of us to take on this crisis, to change the systems, and to challenge the status quo that has created this crisis.

Now, many of you know this has been a big part of my life's work. When I was Attorney General of California, I established the Bureau of Children's Justice to prioritize the needs of our children and their parents and to mitigate against adverse childhood experiences.

The point for me has always been clear: What affects the children of our communities affects all of us.

As a United State senator, I crafted one of the first bills In the history of the United States Senate to target racial disparities in maternal mortality and to take on the challenge of dealing with implicit bias in our healthcare delivery system.

Together with Congresswoman Alma Adams, who is here with us today, I introduced the Maternal CARE Act. Together with Congresswoman Adams and Congresswoman Lauren Underwood, I also introduced the Black Maternal Health Momnibus Act -- a comprehensive bill designed to improve maternal nutrition, to expand affordable housing, and to extend our maternal health workforce to include more doulas and midwives. And for so many women, let's note doulas are literally a lifeline.

And so, we must support all these healthcare professionals.

And, finally, with Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, I introduced the Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act -- legislation that would address many of the biggest issues that affect so many women, the underlying conditions that contribute to maternal mortality: uterine fibroids. And this is especially of concern for Black women who are more likely to be hospitalized as a result of that condition.

So, each of these bills form the basis for the historic investment in our maternal healthcare included in our Build Back Better Act.

Our Build Back Better Act will grow and diversify the perinatal nursing and doula workforce, support the work of the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities. It will promote health equity by taking action, from increasing funding for maternal mental health to investing in maternal health research at minority-serving institutions.

So here's but an example of what our Build Back Better Act will do:

So, currently, in most state Medicaid programs, they only provide for 60 days of postpartum coverage for women. Our law will require state Medicaid and CHIP programs to provide a full year of coverage after a woman has given birth.

Now, what does this mean? It means a full year of coverage for pelvic exams and vaccinations, for postpartum depression, screening, and regular check-ups.

According to a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services, this would cover 720,000 more people every year.

HHS has also put out new guidance today to help states implement the extension.

This action will save lives and it will change lives.

Our Build Back Better Act represents the single-largest investment to address maternal mortality and morbidity in our nation, ever. The House passed this bill just before Thanksgiving, and the President and I are confident that the Senate will soon do the same.

So, as I said from the start, in the United States of America, we must do everything we can to protect and to strengthen both maternal health and reproductive health.

This is about the rights of women. This is about the future of our nation. And this will take all of us. And the actions we announced today are just the beginning.

In April, here at the White House, I invited women who have experienced, personally and deeply, the tragedy of maternal mortality.

Their stories were different, but they described a common feeling, a terrible feeling: the feeling of not being heard.

On this Day of Action, may the women of our nation know: I hear you. We hear you. And we are here to take action.

Thank you again. May God bless you, and may God bless America. Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: (Applause.) Hello, everyone. Hello. Hello, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Please have a seat. Please have a seat.

It is wonderful to be back in North Carolina.

Chanda, I want to thank you for your skill, for your knowledge, for showing us around today, and -- and just increasing our enthusiasm and excitement for what's happening here in this state and around the country -- both because of the skilled workers who actually make it all come together but also because of the innovation that we are seeing every day, and certainly here at this facility.

I want to thank Secretary Pete Buttigieg -- where are you? -- there you are -- for joining me today and for serving our nation as the Secretary of our Department of Transportation. You've been doing extraordinary work, and thank you for that.

Also traveling with me today is Congresswoman Alma Adams. And I want to thank you, Congresswoman. I will say, to your home state, that I see the Congresswoman in the halls of Congress, in the White House; she is always fighting for the people of her district and the people of North Carolina, whether the cameras are on or the cameras are off. (Applause.) So thank you for your leadership. Thank you.

And of course, Governor, it is always good to be with you. It is always good to be with you.

And, Mayor, thank you for hosting us.

So, this is a day that we are celebrating -- as we will continue to do -- the passage of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

And, North Carolina, you know well: Leaders like Congresswoman Adams, like Governor Roy Cooper, like Mayor Vi Lyles, like all of the state and local elected officials who here today -- leaders like Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis -- all made it possible for me and the President to turn the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal into the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

Because of their work, because of our work together, America is moving again. Because ultimately, that's what infrastructure is all about: getting people moving.

You know, the way I see it, infrastructure gives people what they need to get where they need to go. That's my definition of infrastructure: help the people get where they need to do.

And so think about the buses that are around us, the bus that's behind me.

People rely on public transportation for all kinds of reasons: to get groceries, to get to school on time, to get to work on time, to get to church on time.

For millions of Americans, public transportation is part of their day every day. And a bus stop within walking distance can make all the difference versus a bus stop you have to walk for half an hour to get to.

And we all know what it means for someone to miss a bus by just one minute and that it can mean being at least an hour late for work.

All of these are issues that we will address by paying attention to the need to put resources into our public transit systems.

And we all know that we just -- we're on one these beautiful electric railcars, but we all know what it's like to be on a -- on an outdated railcar. We are talking about that, in terms of the frequency that it might break down and the frequency with which it needs repair.

In states across our nation, public transportation is not as fast or as frequent, as safe or as healthy as it can be.

And people who use public transportation for their commute often spend much more of their time in transit -- time that they could be spending with friends and family, helping their children do their homework; time they could spend running essential errands or even relaxing after a hard day at work.

And there is a major repair backlog in our nation: 24,000 buses, 5,000 railcars, 200 stations that are in need of work. Thousands of miles of tracks, signals, and power systems in our country need to be repaired.

We need to get to fixing all of these things. We need to get this fixed and done.

So, North Carolina, public transit is a good -- public good, and that is why we are investing in it.

With our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we will make the largest-ever investment in public transit in our nation's history.

North Carolina alone will receive $910 million for public transit over the next five years. (Applause.)

And, Governor Cooper, I want to thank you for always being such a very strong and powerful advocate for the needs of this state.

And for here in Charlotte, Mayor, well, you are doing extraordinary work upgrading your bus system with more connections, more frequent service, and more electric buses. And I know that the funding that we are delivering will help with all of that important and good work.

And here is the bottom line: World-class cities like Charlotte deserve world-class transit systems. (Applause.) And this law is going to help you build those systems.

On top of public transit, our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will also make the most significant investment to fix our roads and bridges in 70 years.

And I don't need to tell this group of leaders that across North Carolina there are more than 3,000 miles of highway that need to be repaired -- highways like I-85. Look at the people nodding. (Laughter.)

In addition, our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will modernize our ports and our airports. Among other things, think about what that will mean, not only for the passengers who need to get where they need to go, but also it will help reduce the supply chain bottlenecks that families are experiencing right now.

We will also, with this law, replace lead pipes so that every American can get -- have clean drinking water, so that our babies are not drinking toxic water, which in many cases will have irreparable damage to their ability to learn.

With this work we have done together, we will expand broadband in rural and urban areas. (Applause.) Which I know -- and, again, the Governor and I have talked about this -- is a big issue for the people of this state.

And why do we do this? We do this work so that every American can have affordable and accessible high-speed Internet connections to do the work that we know, certainly during the course of the pandemic, became so necessary -- whether it is allowing our children to have access to the Internet to get their homework done.

You know, long gone -- I will speak to a certain generation of people that includes myself -- long gone is Encyclopedia Britannica. (Laughter.) They need to have access to the Internet to be able to excel and reach their God-given capacity.

Let's think about access to high-speed Internet for our small businesses and how that helps and is a necessity for them to be able to do their important work.

Let's think about high-speed Internet and access for the purposes of telemedicine so that folks in rural communities can have access to the kind of care that they deserve and need.

In addition to all of that, and importantly, this law will put millions more Americans to work in good-paying jobs and good-paying union jobs -- jobs like a fellow I met by the name of Jeff Bird has.

So Jeff Bird is a line design technician that I met with in New Hampshire. His skill and his important work is to attach fiber to utility poles to keep up with the demand for high-speed Internet.

Jobs like Walter Coty has. So, Walter -- I met with him -- he's a construction inspector. And what he does is he works to get clean water to families in California.

Jobs like Leslie Kilgore has. So, Leslie is an engineer I met with in High Point, North Carolina, whose team is building electric school buses.

In creating jobs, in investing in what people need to get where they are going, our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will make our country more competitive. It will make our communities more prosperous. And it will deliver on our administration's commitment to equity.

And as significant as it is, as historic as it is, our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is part one of two.

Part two of two is our Build Back Better Act.

The President and I know that families are stretched thin. And we take that very seriously. And we have designed the Build Back Better Act to build, to help address the reality of the needs of everyday folks who just need a little support.

Let's take, for instance, the issue of prescription drug costs.

It is simply not right that seniors are going into debt to pay for their medication. (Applause.) It is not right that because they can't afford their prescription, they cut pills to try and extend it and, in so doing, expose themselves to greater illness. It's just not right. So our Build Back Act -- Build Back Better Act -- will bring down prescription drug costs.

It's just not right that parents are being forced to quit their jobs to care for a member of their family. And so our Build Back Better Act will bring down both childcare costs and eldercare costs.

I can't tell you the number of families and individuals I have met with around our country who are in what we call the "sandwich generation" -- individuals who are raising their young children while they are also giving care to their elder relatives. And what that means, in terms of how they must divide up the responsibilities of their day, requiring two different sets of skills -- probably with the exception of food preparation -- two sets of skills that are required to balance those obligations. We should be helping people.

And so, it's not right that families have to choose to either buy groceries or pay for healthcare, to either fill up their tank or pay their rent. And so our Build Back Better Act will bring down healthcare and housing costs also.

What we are doing with Build Back Better is saying we need to meet the needs of working families, and we must address the current and immediate needs while not neglecting the needs that are quickly becoming a crisis for us. And that brings me to the issue of the climate crisis, and the need we also have at this very moment to address it directly.

The climate crisis is an existential threat, and it demands our immediate action.

So with Build Back Better, we will make an historic investment to help families weatherize their home, businesses to produce clean energy, and our nation to reduce emissions.

The climate crisis is not slowing down and neither can we.

The House passed our Build Back Better Act just before the holiday -- before Thanksgiving -- and the President and I are confident that the Senate will do the same very soon. (Applause.) Yes.

And it bears noting: This bill is fully paid for and will not raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 a year. (Applause.)

And we are determined to get it passed and bring down costs for you and the people of our nation.

So, I will conclude with this: In many ways, our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and our Build Back Better Act embody our character as a nation.

They demonstrate -- when you think about the details of it -- they demonstrate exactly who we are, because we are believers through and through. We see what can be, unburdened by what has been. And we have faith -- we have faith in what is possible and what can be. And we have determination -- the determination it takes to bring a better future to bear.

So, as we move forward, let us believe in our people and invest in our people. And always, let us believe in what we can do when we stand together.

Thank you all very much. God bless you. And may God bless America. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: And I love my husband. (Laughter.) Happy Hanukkah, everyone. Happy Hanukkah.

To our great, phenomenal President Joe Biden, to our phenomenal First Lady Jill Biden, thank you for welcoming all of us and for what you do every day -- for what you do every day.

Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, thank you for your leadership. (Applause.)

And Rabbi Lauren Holtzblatt and Rabbi Dr. Aaron Glatt and all of the Rabbis here tonight: Thank you for joining us and always lifting our spirits and reminding us of the importance of seeing the light in each other and, through these periods that we experience of darkness, always reminding us of what each of us has and can give to each other -- that is about light.

It is an honor to be here with friends, old and new, and to mark the fourth night of Hanukkah.

As the Second Gentleman -- the first Second Gentleman --said, Hanukkah is a one of our family favorites as a holiday. And every year, our family, like so many around the world, gather to reflect on the lessons of the Hanukkah story -- the power of the people, the possibility of the future; that even in despair, there is hope; that even in darkness, there is light.

We all know, for 2,000 years, these important lessons have been a beacon for people across our world.

As Jews have gathered to light the menorah -- a tradition that has endured, yes, during moments of darkness; a tradition that has endured in moments also of celebration -- we have known, and always known, that we will not be deterred, that we will not be distracted from what we know is good and our commitment -- an enduring commitment -- to good.

After World War Two, we remember Jewish immigrants together with merchants and members of the Coast Guard gathered for Hanukkah services on Ellis Island.

And as Doug mentioned, he went to Ellis Island and looked at the papers of his family members who arrived in the United States through Ellis Island.

Decades later, when a brick was thrown through the window of a Jewish home in Billings, Montana, the town came together. Thousands put menorahs in their windows in a stand against hate.

And just last year, as [at] hospitals and nursing homes, staff members celebrated Hanukkah with patients who were separated from their families due to the pandemic.

So, tonight, we carry on this ancient tradition, this sacred tradition.

And when we light this beautiful menorah, we will do so not only for ourselves, but for all those who came before and for all those who have yet to arrive.

As one candle lights many, may the hope we share tonight ignite the hope throughout our world for generations to come.

And now, it is my honor to introduce a man of deep faith -- I work with him every day, and he is guided by the light always -- a leader who deeply understands the Jewish faith and stands with the Jewish people of our nation and our world, our President, Joe Biden.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Senator Kelly. Thank you. (Applause.)

Please have a seat.

Senator, I just have to say about you -- the President feels this way, our nation feels this way: You have dedicated yourself to our nation with such courage, such commitment, and such patriotism. And I thank you for the introduction and your life of service. Thank you.

And to everyone, good afternoon. Good afternoon. I want to, first, thank the United States Institute of Peace for hosting us today.

And thank you to everyone for joining this inaugural meeting of our National Space Council.

This council has the important responsibility to synchronize our nation's civil, commercial, and national security space activities.

And gathered here is the largest and most expansive Space Council in our nation's history.

Today, President Joe Biden issued an executive order to renew this council and to add five new members. And they are here today: the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, and our National Climate Advisor.

The broad membership of this council reflects our broad priorities as an administration.

And also here today are members of Congress from both chambers, as well as Admiral Jim Ellis, who serves as chair of the Users' Advisory Group.

And I thank all of you for your participation and your leadership. And welcome to all.

Astronauts have said that seeing Earth from space for the first time -- like Senator Kelly described -- is awe-inspiring and clarifying. In that moment, it becomes abundantly clear how precious our Earth -- how precious our Earth is and how connected we all who occupy space on this Earth -- how connected we are.

The vision, they say, is so powerful that it produces an effect which has actually been given a name: the "overview effect."

One astronaut from the Apollo 8 mission explained: While the crew's initial focus was on the moon, in the end, it was equally important to look back at Earth.

Today, our nation and our world is more active in space

than ever before, with satellites in orbit that provide services and security to people here on Earth; with a thriving commercial enterprise; with the International Space Station, among the brightest objects in our sky; and with the Artemis Program, which is helping our nation achieve new heights.

And while our exploration of space takes us up to the moon, to Mars, to the edge of our Solar System, like the Apollo 8 crew, I believe we have a responsibility to also look to our home planet.

In this new era, we must see all the ways in which space can benefit Earth. We must see all the ways in which space can benefit the people of our nation and of all of humanity.

This perspective is central to our work as a council. Because while exploration of space defined the 20th century, the opportunity of space must guide our work in the 21st.

And that is why the first order of business today is to release our Space Priorities Framework. Our priorities, as I mentioned, are broad, as is our Framework.

Our Framework covers many areas in which space activity is a source for American leadership and strength, and American innovation and opportunity.

At this meeting this afternoon, we will focus on three particular areas within our Framework. And the three areas, I believe, demonstrate our administration's vision and our mission.

Three areas in which I believe we will make significant progress: one, building our STEM workforce; two, addressing the climate crisis; three, promoting rules and norms that govern space.

So, first, on STEM. I have visited several college campuses over the years, including, this year, I visited Hampton University, an HBCU in Virginia. Hampton University hosts a NASA mission: the AIM satellite mission.

The students there are scientists, and they are working with scientists to track atmospheric changes. And I'll tell you something about these students: They are both inspired and inspiring.

And so, we must ensure that more of our nation's students have access to these important opportunities. We must encourage more of our students to pursue STEM careers.

The truth is: The United States used to lead -- I said, past tense -- used to lead the world on innovation. But right now, our nation is falling behind as others develop their STEM workforce.

To compete in the 21st century, to keep our nation secure

in the 21st century, our nation must invest in more scientists, more engineers, more programmers. We must -- it is an imperative -- build a strong STEM workforce.

And I have seen with my own eyes how space can help us reach that goal. From the elementary school student with a telescope to the college student analyzing satellite data, to the trades apprentice who is learning skills to help build rockets.

So, today, as a council, we will discuss how we can strengthen space policy and how we can partner with union leaders and business leaders and educators to build the workforce that will solve the challenges of our time.

And that brings me to our second area of focus today: the challenge of the climate crisis.

The AIM satellite mission at Hampton University is one of many that is measuring the impact of the climate crisis.

I was recently at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. And I was honored to be the first to view images

from the satellite that has been named "Landsat 9."

These are but two examples of the fleet of satellites and sensors we have as a nation that provide citizens and scientists with the data they need to mitigate and adapt to the impact of the climate crisis.

Just think: These satellites provide real-time images of the landscape of our nation. As natural disasters increase in frequency and ferocity around our country, these images are being used by first responders. These images are being used

by farmers to assess their crops as drought and heat threatens their livelihood, threatens our ability to produce food as a nation; and by scientists who are working to combat the climate crisis head on.

Today, this council will commit to make this data more accessible to more people. And we will expand our global partnerships to increase the data we are able to collect.

Last month, I announced that the United States will join the Space Climate Observatory. That's an international initiative -- it's being led by France -- to support climate action to local communities.

The work of our council will build on these types of partnerships.

Which leads then to the third focus of today -- probably one of the most important in terms of our nation's leadership around the world. And that is how our nation can lead in our world to establish, to expand, and to accelerate the rules and the norms that govern space.

Over the past weeks and months, I have spoken with heads of states and governments about our priorities in space -- leaders of France, India, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, among others.

In these conversations, the opportunity of space has been clear, as has the risk. Without clear norms for the responsible use of space, we stand the real risk of threats to our national and global security.

Just last month, we saw what can happen. Russia launched an anti-satellite missile to destroy one of its satellites. By blasting debris across space, this irresponsible act endangered the satellites of other nations, as well as astronauts in the International Space Station.

As activity in space grows, we must reaffirm, yes, the rights of all nations and we must demand responsibility from all space-faring nations.

We must establish and expand rules and norms on safety and security, on transparency and cooperation to include military, commercial, and civil space activity.

As but one example, the United States has led the development of the Artemis Accords to establish clear norms for civil space exploration. Thirteen nations have signed on so far.

From here, we must work to expand the number of signatories on the Artemis Accords.

In my recent meetings with the presidents of France and Mexico, both nations have indicated their intention to join.

So, promoting rules and norms, addressing the climate crisis, building on our STEM workforce -- these are the three areas of priority for this council that will guide our work today. And there are many more that this council will address in the days and the weeks and the months ahead.

So, keeping that in mind, I will conclude with this: The astronauts who have returned home from space -- they describe with wonder a new awareness of not only what it is out there, but what's right here.

Looking at Earth from hundreds of thousands of miles away, they see what I know we all know: Our planet is fragile, our planet is beautiful, and it is filled with billions of people who are at once different and the same.

From space, all of humanity is one. And through our work in space, we have an opportunity to benefit not only the American people but all of humanity.

Our framework is, therefore, comprehensive. Our agenda -- yes, our agenda is ambitious.

But as an astronaut once told me about the advice he received ahead of his first spacewalk -- he was told, "Simple. Just focus on what's right in front of you, and from there, widen your view."

That, my friends, is how we will move forward: focused on what is in front of us, and widening our view and expanding our work as we go forward.

So, again, I thank you all for being here. And let's now get into our agenda. Thank you, all. (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon. Before I begin with the topic of –- of this discussion, I want to say a word about the tragedy that occurred last night in Wisconsin.

The President and I are monitoring the situation closely. We do not yet have all the details, but we do know that there are five families who have lost loved ones, we know that at least 40 people have been injured, and we know that that entire community is grieving.

The horrific act of violence that occurred last night is heartbreaking. To those families who lost a loved one, to the first responders, to the community: Please know that we are praying for you and that we stand with you.

With that, I want to also thank Dr. Luis Padilla for your kind introduction and for the commitment that you have displayed throughout your career to this very important work.

And, of course, it is always an honor to join Surgeon General Vivek Murthy. Dr. Murthy, as I hope I tell you often enough, we are so thankful for your skill, for your determination, and for your commitment. You have worked tirelessly in the fight against COVID-19. And on behalf of our nation, I want to thank you, Vivek.

So, it has been nearly two years since this -- since the pandemic began. In so many ways, our nation has been tested. Our nation's resilience has been tested and so has our persistence.

Our nation's ingenuity has been tested and so has our commitment to equity.

So, I will focus today on our collective commitment to equity.

Here is the truth: COVID-19 did not invent health disparities. Just ask any healthcare professional and she will tell you: Health disparities existed long before this virus reached our shores. Health disparities stem from broader systemic inequities.

What COVID-19 has done is expose these disparities and it has exasperated these disparities.

When President Joe Biden and I took office, we knew that Black communities, brown communities, Native communities, rural communities were hardest hit by COVID-19.

So, when we went to work, we did it with haste to get our nation -- and everyone in our nation -- vaccinated. And we pushed ourselves, along the way, to do everything we could to reach the hardest-hit communities.

We set up mass vaccination sites. We sent out mobile vaccination units to communities that were the hardest hit and often found it very difficult to get to the centers of activity. Communities with the highest risk were a priority. We got vaccines directly to hundreds of community health centers.

In fact, three in four vaccine doses that have been administered at community health centers have been administered to people of color.

And we called on our entire nation: Join us in our effort to close the gaps in vaccination rates as what we must do to close these gaps, period.

So, employers offered paid time off. Childcare providers offered drop-in services. Public transit agencies offered free rides to vaccination sites. Churches and barbershops opened their doors to become vaccination sites.

And as a result of all of that work, today, as Dr. Murthy and Dr. Padilla have discussed -- as a result of all that work, today we have effectively closed the gap in vaccination rates among Black and brown adults.

Now, to be sure, there is still work to do to end this pandemic. And right now, we are especially focused on getting our children over the age of five vaccinated.

What we have done shows us what is possible when we focus on equity.

Over the last 10 months, our COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force has been collecting information in order to provide recommendations that will continue to guide our health equity work.

This task force is something -- as has been mentioned -- that I envisioned when I served in the United States Senate, and its creation was one of the first actions that our administration took.

The President and I asked members of our task force to advise us not just on COVID-19 disparities, but on how we get at the root of all the disparities in the healthcare system that we face.

And earlier this month, in their final report, the task force laid out clear priorities for our administration and for our nation.

Here is but one of those priorities: Our nation must invest in a healthcare workforce that looks like America and provide access to equitable healthcare for all Americans.

So, today, I am proud to announce, thanks to our American Rescue Plan, we will invest $1.5 billion to help us do just that. With these funds, we will invest in our National Health Service Corps and our Nurse Corps. Together, these healthcare professionals serve more than 23 million patients in our nation.

We will also invest in our substance use disorder treatment and recovery program. Our administration's goal here is to address the urgent shortage of doctors, nurses, and behavioral health providers in both urban and rural areas.

Through scholarships and loan repayment, we will support over 22,000 providers -- 22,000 providers -- a record number of skilled professionals committed to serving in underserved communities. And these professionals will look like America and be better prepared to provide equitable care to America.

In addition, in the days ahead, it is our hope and intention and expectation that Congress will build on this work by passing our Build Back Better Act.

That legislation will build on our priority to address health disparities. It will reduce healthcare premiums for 9 million Americans and close the Medicaid coverage gap. It will also make an historic investment in maternal health in order to address the tragedy of Black maternal mortality in America.

Again, there is more work to be done, but I believe we are headed in the right direction.

So, I will end, for now, with this: Throughout this pandemic, we have indeed been tested. And in so many ways, in the face of these challenges, our nation has demonstrated who we are as a nation.

Even in difficult times -- especially in difficult times -- we remain undaunted. We remain undeterred. We remain determined to build a better future.

We have an opportunity now to advance health equity. It is up to all of us to seize on that opportunity.

Thank you, all. May God bless you. And may God bless America. Thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Mr. President, it is my great honor to welcome you to Washington, D.C. and to the United States. I want to thank you again for the very warm welcome you gave me when we came to Mexico City five short months ago.

This meeting is a continuation of an ongoing conversation that you and I have had, fueled by friendship, fueled by partnership, fueled by the longstanding relationship between Mexico and the United States, and in recognition of all the work that we will do currently and that we pledge to do together in the future -- together, working on the challenges that we face and also recognizing the opportunities that exist when we work together as countries in North America and as partners in the Western Hemisphere.

The conversations that we have had range in subject. I have enjoyed always the conversation that you and I have about history and the critical figures in history, both in Mexico and the United States, who have worked together.

But our conversation also extends to economic prosperity for both of our nations; the issue of our mutual concern about migration and what we will do as partners to address, in particular, the root causes of migration; and also what we can do on the issues of technology and the exploration of space.

All of these issues have been the subject of our discussions previously and will be ongoing.

And so, again, I welcome you. I thank you for traveling to be with us. I know the President is looking forward to his time with you.

I also want to thank you for the warm reception that you and the people of Mexico have given to Ken Salazar, our Ambassador to Mexico. I have known Ken Salazar -- Ambassador Salazar -- for a very long time, and we are very proud that he is the representative of the United States in Mexico.

And with that, again, welcome. And I look forward to the discussion we will have today.

PRESIDENT LÓPEZ OBRADOR: (As interpreted.) I want to thank you for your kind, warm welcome. Madam Vice President, it is a pleasure to meet you again, here in Washington, D.C.

I agree on the fact that you have a very good ambassador appointed to Mexico. We were talking a few minutes ago that we shouldn't leave history aside, which is our teacher in life.

President Roosevelt was here. Before becoming President, he worked with the Secretary of the Navy Daniels. And it was a fortunate event for Mexico because time went by, President Roosevelt became the President of the United States, and he appointed Daniels, his former boss, Ambassador to the USA in Mexico.

And that was a relevant moment because it was President Lázaro Cárdenas's administration, our best president in the 20th century -- because the best president in Mexican history is Benito Juárez, from my standpoint.

So, it was helpful that Ambassador Daniels was the representative of the United States because he was a man of progress who understood why -- the "why" behind President Cárdenas's decisions. And, on top of that, President Roosevelt was his friend, which strengthened the relationship in such a way that it is of the utmost importance that the ambassadors appointed to Mexico, that the USA representatives in Mexico are people of trust, such as the current ambassador.

And we get along just fine. The relationship is very good. And since your visit to Mexico and we discussed different affairs, we have continued working jointly. The Secretary of Foreign Affairs has dealt with all things related -- economics; our sovereignty; of course, the migratory issue, addressing the causes, which you understand.

We have to invest to foster employment and wellbeing in Central America so people do not find themselves in the need of migrating, and that migration is an option and not something that is enforced, something that is an obligation that they have to leave their hometowns, their families out of necessity or due to violence.

Hence, the importance of economic cooperation and investing in Central America, has -- we will accomplish. We do have information that, as per our conversations, there's already a plan in place set by the U.S. government to assist Central America, which we strongly commend you for.

And, on top of that, if economic integration is strengthened throughout North America, we will need to organize migratory flow, and several opportunities -- job opportunities -- will be created to promote growth throughout North America and so that North America produces what it uses, what it consumes, without having to depend on imports. We need to produce and manufacture in North America whatever we need. It is an ideal -- and not only for North America, but throughout the entire continent.

Just as the European Union started out, which became the economic European Union afterwards, that needs to be our ideal: integration throughout the region. And we can leverage from the outstanding advantages that we have, such as this proximity. And right now, we are suffering from that because of the maritime fleet -- prices have gone up.

So why don't we take advantage of the proximity of the closeness between our countries and the fact that we have our own marketplace? There is high demand in the continent vis-à-vis other regions.

So I believe that -- the economic integration of North America in sovereign terms, as well as to have integration throughout the Americas, in order to strengthen the region at the economic level. And we will.

With all due respect, tell President Biden that we celebrate that he sent a bill to Congress to regulate the migratory status of our immigrants. And hopefully, the congressmen and women of both political parties will help us out with that, because it is fair.

There are hardworking, honest people who have been living in the U.S. for a while now. I think there's no such better initiative when it comes to the migratory conversation, and we will watch over this process regarding the bill submitted by President Biden, and we highly commend him for it.

I've spoken quite a bit now. I'm really glad to be here.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you. It is good to see you. And I'm looking forward to our conversation. Thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Mr. Prime Minister, welcome. Welcome. And to the delegation, welcome. It is very good to see you all.

We've had many conversations, at this point, over the telephone, by Zoom. It is now a great honor and joy to see you in person and to welcome you.

As you know and we have discussed, the relationship between the United States and Canada is a very personal one to us as Americans and to me as an individual.

As you know, I spent time in Canada as a young person. And what I know from that experience and what I'm certain of as Vice President is that the relationship and the bond between our two nations is a long and enduring one, based on many principles and ideals that we cherish and hold dear; that our relationship is as family, as you and I have discussed; and in the context of being fellow members of North America and as being partners to many of our allies and friends in this region, the work that we do together is vitally important not only to the people of our nations, but the people in the region.

And so, I welcome you. I look forward to the work we will do together -- to continuing not only on the bond, but on strengthening the region as a whole.

So, welcome and thank you.

PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU: Thank you so much, Madam Vice President. It is a real pleasure, as you say, to be able to sit down with you in person for the first time, even though we've had lots of phone calls and even Zoom calls, and been at the same events virtually a number of times.

It's an opportunity for us to continue to deepen our friendship, our relationship, the close ties that bond Canada and the U.S. together -- not just economic ties and people-to-people ties, but the deep value-based perspective that we have on promoting democracy, on being there for inclusion and diversity and empowering -- empowering marginalized people.

These are the kinds of things we need to continue to work on together. This is how we build back better from the pandemic. And I'm really excited about the opportunity to dig into some of those things with you here today.

(Speaks in French.)

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you. Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: In a moment. (Laughter.) Please have a seat.

President Joe Biden, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, Cabinet members, Congressmembers, governors, and mayors, and -- (applause) -- and my fellow Americans: This is an historic day.

In the middle of the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln started construction on the transcontinental railroad. In the middle of the Great Depression, President Franklin Roosevelt finished construction on the Hoover Dam. President Dwight Eisenhower signed the National Interstate and Defense Highways Act in the middle of the Cold War. And today -- and today, President Joe Biden will sign the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act into law. (Applause.)

Indeed, it is an historic day today. From the very start of our administration, we were determined to follow through not just on our promise to invest in our nation's infrastructure, but on the promises that the American people have heard for years now.

And we would not be here today were it not for your leadership, Mr. President. From the very start, you welcomed Democrats, independents, and Republicans to meet with us in the Oval Office. You welcomed ideas, you welcomed debate, all in the service of getting this bill done.

And here is what I know to be true, Mr. President: You are equal parts believer and builder. And because you are, we are all better off. On behalf of our nation: Thank you, Mr. President. (Applause.)

And, of course, our administration did not arrive at this day by ourselves. We are also here because of leaders in the House and the Senate who worked on this bill together, who voted for this bill. And we are here because of the millions of Americans who believed that we could get this done.

Well, we got it done, America. (Laughs.) (Applause.) We got it done.

In many ways, this day embodies our character as a nation. It demonstrates exactly who we are. We are believers, through and through. We see what can be, unburdened by what has been. We are as bold as we are determined to do big things.

The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act proves that. It proves that, in America, we have the courage to believe a better future is possible and to build it together.

After this bill is signed into law, millions more Americans will go to work in good-paying, good union jobs. (Applause.) Americans like Jovan Johnson, a carpenter I met in Nevada, who said that she has, quote, "built her career on infrastructure and fed her family on infrastructure."

Americans like Jeff Bird, a line design technician I met with in New Hampshire. He attaches fiber to utility poles to keep up with the demand for high-speed Internet.

Or Leslie Kilgore, an engineer I met with in North Carolina whose team is building electric school buses.

Or Walter Coty, a construction inspector with whom I met who is working to get clean water to families in California.

This will be a nationwide effort, the likes of which we have not seen in a generation. It will make our country more competitive, and it will deliver on our nation's and our administration's commitment to equity.

Now, this bill -- as significant as it is, as historic as it is -- is part one of two. (Applause.) To lower costs and cut taxes for working families, to tackle the climate crisis at its core, Congress must also pass the Build Back Better Act. (Applause.)

The work of building a more perfect union did not end with the railroad or the interstate, and it will not end now. So, on this historic day, let us all continue to believe in our people, believe in our country, and believe in what we can do when we work together.

Thank you all. May God bless you. And may God bless America. (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon, everyone. Please have a seat. Good afternoon.

Bill Nelson, it is so wonderful to share a stage with you. We served together in the United States Senate. And I know you have very fond memories of your years as a leader in the United States Senate, but I think your first love, aside from Grace, has always been space. So, it is so good to be with you.

And, you know, the Administrator is right. I'm glad that you talked about bills that are before Congress. The American people have waited long enough, and we need to get this done. So, thank you for your comments.

It is wonderful to be here at NASA. I was just looking out the window, almost with my nose pressed against the window, as we were driving in. To be able to arrive at this storied place where so much of the ingenuity, the innovation, the brilliance, the skill of scientists, of engineers, of the people who you are, who make up the team at NASA where this work is done, it really is my privilege to be with you all today and to personally thank you for the work you do every day. It inspires your country. It inspires our country.

Chris Van Hollen -- Senator Van Hollen and I were classmates when we entered the United States Senate together, and I have been -- seen him firsthand in the halls of the United States Senate when the cameras are on and when the cameras are off. And he's always the same person -- fighting for Maryland, fighting for what's right, and doing it always in a way that is about elevating a discussion to require people to focus on what really impacts people in their lives every day. Senator Van Hollen, I want to thank you for your leadership every day. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you.

And I know our friend, Ben Cardin, was going to be here, as well as Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. And I -- they -- unfortunately, Senator Cardin had to get on his way because he's going to go and represent the United States at COP26, and so he's on his way. And then, of course, Majority Leader Hoyer is doing the work that Bill Nelson is talking about, working hard at Capitol Hill. But I do want to thank them for their leadership.

Thank you, also, to the leaders of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Thank you to the United States Geological Survey. And, again, thank you to all of you at NASA. And, in particular, I want to thank you all for what you do to keep elevating the discourse and the imagination and the spirit of not only what can be done and who does that work here in the United States, but you really do inspire people all over the world.

And there are many ways in which we can talk about the work that we do in space. You all know that. But I'm going to talk today about the opportunity of space -- the opportunity of space.

So, it was 60 years ago that Alan Shepard became the first American to travel into space. He was up there for only 15 minutes, but the world waited with bated breath until his safe return.

Alan Shepard's short flight broke barriers literally and figuratively, as have so many of you. That flight gave President John F. Kennedy and Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson the confidence to set our energy and our resources toward putting an American on the moon.

In the decades since, 12 Americans have walked on the moon, and even more have orbited the Earth. In the decades since, our nation has launched space stations and satellites, sent rovers to Mars, and witnessed the birth of new stars.

With the technology we have developed to explore space, from camera phones to CT scans, we have improved life on Earth. With the perspective we have gained from space, we have reminded many, many folks -- and we have been reminded -- of how precious our Earth really is and how delicate it is and how fragile it is.

But while the exploration of space defined the 20th century, I believe that the opportunity of space will define the 21st century.

Today, our nation is more active in space than ever before, and there are more ways than ever before that space can benefit humanity.

I believe it is incumbent on all of us, then, to seize all the ways in which space can help us solve our biggest challenges, including that of the climate crisis.

The world leaders who gathered at COP26 this week were very clear. They were not ambiguous. They didn't skirt around the issue. They were clear and they were decisive and they were declarative: Climate change is an existential threat, and we must take immediate action to address it.

As our nation works to meet our climate commitments, we know that our actions cannot be limited to only what we can do on Earth.

Right at this minute, we are monitoring emissions and measuring the impact of climate change from space.

We have a fleet of satellites and sensors providing citizens and scientists with the data that they -- that you need to mitigate the impact and to adapt to the impact.

Take Landsat 9, which was assembled, of course, here at Goddard and launched into space last September. As we just saw, Landsat 9 can provide real-time images of our nation's landscape.

As natural disasters are increasing in frequency and ferocity due to climate change, these images can be used by first responders to help save lives.

These images can be used by farmers to assess their crops as drought and heat threaten their yield.

These images can be used by scientists who are working to combat climate change head on.

And another satellite within our fleet is at a university -- a local university that I recently visited -- Hampton University, an HBCU in Virginia.

When I was on that campus, I saw the AIM satellite mission. Students there were working with scientists to understand the connections between climate change and atmospheric changes.

So, here's the bottom line: I truly believe space activity is climate action. Space activity is education. Space activity is also economic growth. It is also innovation and inspiration. And it is about our security and our strength.

So, as chair of the National Space Council, I will convene leaders from across our administration for an inaugural Council meeting on December 1st. I'm really looking forward to that.

And at that meeting, we will outline a comprehensive framework for our nation's space priorities -- from our civilian efforts, like those we have seen today; to our military and national security efforts; to STEM education; and the emerging space economy.

And what is abundantly clear is that when it comes to our space activity, there is limitless potential.

When Alan Shepard launched into space 60 years ago, he named his space capsule the Freedom 7 to honor NASA's first group of seven astronauts.

Freedom -- freedom is not just about the feeling of flying through space at 5,000 miles per hour; freedom is about opportunity.

So, as we go forth from here, let us continue to seize the opportunity of space.

And again, I thank you all for the work you do each and every day. The work you are doing will impact people around our globe, around this beautiful, precious planet we call Earth. And I cannot thank you enough.

Have a good evening. Thank you all.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good morning -- or good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.

So, we are here today with a bipartisan group of mayors to discuss the challenges that we face as a country, but also the solutions that are at hand.

And I want to particularly thank the mayors of America. We have met many times over the course of this year, and I will repeat myself in saying that you all are the leaders on the ground. You make things happen. You are the face of government, often, for the families, for the children, for the people of our country. And you make things work. You pull it together.

And during the course of this year, you've had many challenges. And through your commitment, your leadership, your courage, and your ingenuity, you still have been able to make things work, even when things were not as supportive of you as they needed to be because we just had so many challenges.

It is because of your leadership that we passed the American Rescue Plan, which, as you know, early in the stage of this pandemic, allowed us to get $1,400 checks to folks who had lost their jobs through no fault of their own.

It was through your leadership on the ground that we were able to pass the Child Tax Credit, in terms of expanding it. And we're on the verge of doing even more.

But a large part of the success I anticipate we'll have in extending it is due to the work that you did initially to show how it would uplift and help our families.

So, that is the work you've been doing every day. And I therefore want to start my comments by thanking you and thanking your colleagues across this country.

Today, we have an opportunity to finish what we started, I believe, or at least to take it to the next step -- and that is the work that we can do to build upon the success of the American Rescue Plan with the bi -- Build Back Better Agenda.

And as you know, today our administration announced the framework of the Build Back Better Agenda. And Build Back Better is essentially about doing a better job in combating the climate crisis; it's about creating better jobs; it's about doing the work of helping our families; it's about doing better in terms of the access to healthcare for the American people.

That's the agenda. That's what we have -- in our hands right now, within our grasp -- the opportunity to do with the Build Back Better framework, coupled with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.

And I'm so proud that mayors from around the country, regardless of party affiliation, have seen and have really been leaders in understanding that this really is not about partisanship in terms of what we need to do to fix our roads and bridges; what we need to do to bring childcare -- affordable and accessible childcare to working families; the work that we need to do to address the climate crisis, understanding that, within the midst of the crisis, there are also great opportunities to create jobs -- good union jobs, good-paying jobs -- for workers and upskill and invest in their skills.

This is the -- this is the work that we have within grasp that we will be able to do when we pass the Build Back Better framework, coupled with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.

So, I want to thank you all. I do believe that there is a unique urgency to this moment. You all know, because you're on the ground, that we cannot afford to be incremental. America and the world has gone through a profound crisis, including a profound amount of loss -- be it loss of life, loss of income, loss of jobs, loss of normalcy.

And in the midst of this crisis, the fractures, the failures, the fissures of our system have become quite apparent. And then, in the midst, there is this opportunity to fix these things -- and not incrementally, but substantially -- in a transformative way that, again, is about jobs, it's about health, it's about families, and it's about our climate.

So, again, I want to thank you all. I'm looking forward to this discussion. And we have the opportunity to really uplift and strengthen our economy and the American family, and I look forward to continuing in our partnership.

So, again, thank you all, and I look forward to our conversation. And with that, I'm going to pass it to Julie Chávez Rodríguez.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Mr. Johnson, for your leadership, for your vision, for your warmth, and for your love on this day we celebrate Dr. King and this monument to him. Love is pervasive all around us right now.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi, thank you for what you are doing. I have known the Speaker for a very long time, having started my elected career in San Francisco. She has always been who she is today: a fighter for working people and a voice for those who must be seen and known, and to whom all deserve the kind of dignity that God intended. (Applause.) Thank you.

Chairwoman Joyce Beatty and my -- I will call you, still, my colleagues at the Congressional Black Caucus. (Laughs.) Thank you all for your leadership.

And to the King family -- Martin Luther King III, Dexter Scott King, and Bernice King -- for their commitment to carry on the legacy of their family multigenerational legacy. (Applause.)

And to everyone here today, thank you. There are so many leaders who are here.

And as we all know, this monument has, in many ways, been distinguished from almost every other monument -- in fact, every other monument along this beautiful Tidal Basin -- because this monument, for most of us here, is dedicated to a man who lived among us. Many of us were alive when Dr. King lived.

This monument, whatever your age, is dedicated to a man whose voice we can still hear, whose words still echo not only across this city, but throughout our country and our world.

Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., was a prophet. He was a prophet in that he saw the present exactly as it was, being clear-eyed, and he saw the future as it could be. And he pushed our nation toward that future.

And it's important to remember: Dr. King pushed even as, on a daily basis, his character was being maligned. He pushed even as his family, on a daily basis, was being threatened. He pushed even as his very life was in jeopardy. And toward what would be the end of that short life, he pushed even harder, drawing a straight line between racial injustice and economic injustice; demanding more for Black people, for people of color, for working people, for all people.

And it may not sound radical now; it was radical then.

So, as we remember his life and celebrate the anniversary of this beautiful memorial, let us be guided by those same connections he made as they exist today. Racial injustice today is inextricably linked to economic injustice, to the impact of the climate crisis, to the impact of COVID-19, and to the threats to our democracy.

And I believe then, knowing and seeing that, the path forward is clear: We must put people to work in good union jobs -- (applause) -- and invest in the care -- the childcare, the home care -- that people need to be able to go to work. We must reform our criminal justice system and our immigration system. (Applause.) We must defend and strengthen the right that unlocks all other rights: the right to vote. (Applause.)

And as we all know, in 2013, the Voting Rights Act that Dr. King and so many others fought for was gutted by the Supreme Court decision in Shelby v. Holder. That decision opened the floodgates for the anti-voter laws we see being passed in states throughout our country today.

And to be sure, we should not have to keep fighting so hard to secure our fundamental rights. But fight we must, and fight we will. (Applause.)

So, right now, there are two bills in front of the United States Congress that would help to restore the Voting Rights Act and strengthen the right to vote for all Americans: The Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. These two bills are among the broadest efforts to protect and strengthen the right to vote since Dr. King died.

But yesterday, as Senate Democrats voted to advance the Freedom to Vote Act, Senate Republicans voted against even debating it -- even debating it -- as though it's not a debatable point. They refused to even come to the table to talk about it.

Well, today, I am reminded of the words -- we all are -- the many words we've heard, including from our young leaders; the words of Dr. King's partner in that struggle, Coretta Scott King. And she said -- and I will paraphrase: "Freedom is never really won. You earn it and [you] win it [with] every generation."

With their sweat, with their tears, and with their blood, the leaders of the Civil Rights Movement and the coalition they built won the Voting Rights Act. These were young men and women. After all, we remember Dr. King was only 39 years old when he died.

And yet, they knew their power. They knew that there is real power when your cause is just. (Applause.) And they used, then, that power to push Democrats and Republicans to pass that landmark bill.

So, today, as a nation, we must summon our own power. As leaders, we must leverage our own power. And we all have a role to play, and the President and I are clear on ours: We are and we must be unwavering in this fight. And we must use our voice to call out any effort to obstruct justice -- (applause) -- and to call for justice everywhere.

Remember -- and Dr. King knew this -- America is not defined by her perfection. America is defined by our commitment to perfecting. (Applause.) And in our nation, that will forever be the work forward.

As Dr. King did, we must keep believing a better future is possible. And as Dr. King did, we must keep pushing toward that future. So, as I have the great honor of introducing our President, let me end today by recognizing the impact that this memorial has had.

For 10 years -- think about it -- for a decade, visitors from all over the world have come to this very place. The words that are etched in these walls now etched in their hearts -- and on their smartphones. (Laughter.)

The history that is told here, because of this place, is now a part of their own.

And I know that when they leave here, they do so determined to do their part to build a better future.

So, on behalf of our nation, on behalf of our world, thank you all for making this memorial possible.

And now, it is my great and distinct honor to introduce a phenomenal leader who was here when this memorial was first unveiled -- a leader who I know, because I see it every day, draws so much inspiration and reminds so many of the work and the words of Dr. King -- our President of the United States, Joe Biden. (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Hi, everyone. Good to see all the friends. I'm glad you're here.

Well, I wanted to stop by. I knew the extraordinary national and international leaders were here visiting today. Emmy told me -- Brian and Gina -- we've been talking a lot about what we collectively must do, what we want to do, building on the great work that has already happened by the leaders at this table. And there's a lot more to get done. But I wanted to come by just, first of all, to just say thank you.

Many of us have known each other for many, many years. You all have been in this fight for a long time. I think, as I'm looking around at you, the generations of progress in this movement that have been made within our lifetimes, in large part due to the work of each of you.

I think of you in the context of the most recent -- now, I guess, it's been a couple of months -- report from the United Nations about the significance of this very moment. As you did, I read that, and I -- one of the things that really was very obvious about how they articulated the issue and the seriousness of it -- the imminence of it and the danger of it -- was that they were unambiguous.

This was, I think, the first time I've seen a U.N. report where it wasn't, "Oh,we kind of think…there's some general consensus…" No, I mean, they spoke with exclamation points, with numbers, with dates -- 2030.

So, this is a moment of crisis and -- as I think we all think of crises -- also a moment of opportunity. And we cannot afford -- at least in our fight, we cannot afford to be incremental. We cannot afford to be patient.

Nonetheless, we also have a system where there must be consensus when we're talking about the Build Back Better Agenda. And we will work together to accomplish what we all know we must do as the individuals and as the people in this room and in this town and in our country who are -- right now have been -- who've been charged with carrying the baton at this very moment and knowing that the way that we carry the baton at this moment will have a profound impact on the people we hand the baton to.

So, I wanted to come by to thank you. I want you to know that, of course, our Build Back Better Agenda, the way I think of it -- people say, "What exactly does it mean?" Well, I'll tell you what it means for the President, for me, for all of us. It really is about four main parts, one of which is climate, the other which is jobs.

As you know, the President, whenever he talks about or thinks about climate, he will say he thinks about jobs -- again, the opportunity and the moment -- on behalf of the American people and their economic condition and their livelihoods.

And then it's about family. And it's about health. And interestingly enough, all of those issues relate to what we do on the issue of our climate -- jobs, help families.

So that's our agenda. And we are determined to meet our goal of a 50 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. We are absolutely determined to meet that goal. Again, we know that it is not something that is just a goal, it is an imperative.

The priorities that we have on climate are three pronged, at least. There is the point that is about resilience, and that includes addressing issues like Western water and, of course, wildfires -- as you all know, I'm from California; I feel strongly about that for many reasons -- and flood mitigation.

In fact, last week, I was at Lake Mead, in Nevada. I'm sure all of you know it, but to see it -- I stood there with the incredible folks who work in that area. And there's a bathtub ring, which is so clearly marked. It's not even gradual. It's not like it has a slow fade. It's so clearly marked -- the distinction between where the water always was and where it is now.

And the significance of that, of the contrast, just in the colors, is how quickly this all changed so drastically. And they described that the length, that the height of the recession of water, it's longer than the height of the Statue of Liberty. And this is just through the last 20 years -- two thousand and -- 2020.

We are focused on climate resilience. We are focused on reducing emissions. And as we know, this has to be through our focus on clean energy. It has to be through our focus on electric vehicles and transmission.

You know, electric vehicles -- I was -- it was one of my very -- most enjoyable visits, as Vice President, to go to a manufacturing plant here in the United States that is manufacturing electric vehicles. I'm just obsessed with it, and particularly the school buses, because, of course, this relates not only to emissions, but to all that we care about in terms of environmental justice, all that we care about in terms of equity, and acknowledging and then addressing disparities based on race.

Twenty-five million children, at least before COVID, go to school on a daily basis on the current buses, which, of course, contribute to emissions and a threat to our climate, but also a threat to the health and safety of those children.

So, these are some of the issues. And then, of course, environmental justice.

You'll remember -- many of you know -- back when I was District Attorney of San Francisco, I created one of the first-in-the-nation environmental justice units of any prosecutor's office. It's an issue I take very seriously.

It was actually a decade ago that, as Attorney General, I took a group of press, actually, to a place called Mira Loma, California, where the emissions were so intense that the children of that community had been noted by one of our major universities as having the lowest rate -- or the slowest rate of lung development of children anywhere.

So, these are the issues that we are focused on. These are the issues that we are prioritizing. And the negotiations continue, as you all know.

But I wanted to come by to also tell you that we -- the President and I and our administration -- are unwavering in our commitment to these issues -- absolutely unwavering.

But, you know, they -- there's an old saying: You don't want to watch sausage be made, and you don't want to watch a bill be made. (Laughter.)

Sometimes it's not a pretty sight. But the end result of -- you know, unless you're a vegan, of course -- (laughter) -- the end result is usually -- is usually pretty -- pretty good.

But there's work to be done.

But I'll just close my comments by saying that we strongly believe, as I know you do, that this is a very specific moment in time. And we cannot squander, yes, the opportunities, but also the grave responsibility that we have to do something. And we are focused, as an administration, on doing something and getting things done.

And so, I know that you've been talking about it before I stopped in, but I want you to know, you know, I believe strongly, as a devout public servant, that a lot of the progress that we've ever made in government is due in large part to the efforts and the push that comes from outside to remind us of where we can go and what we need to get done. And you all have been doing that for so very long.

And it's so good to see you all. And I want to thank you for traveling to be here for this meeting. Thank you. (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, good morning, everyone. I am so happy to see all of you. Warner -- also known as "Andy," Yolan, Cheryl, Erin, Anita, I want to thank you all for the conversation we're about to have as -- as representative you all are of federal workers all over our country who are doing some of the most incredible and noble work that any one person can choose to do.

I want to, of course, thank my partner in this process, Secretary Marty Walsh, who has been extraordinary. He's a lifelong supporter and fighter for organized labor, for labor unions, and most importantly for workers.

I also want to thank the Office of Personnel Management Director Kiran Ahuja for the work that you have been doing. This has been extraordinary. It's been a process of working with outstanding public servants who include members of the President's Cabinet, who have been looking internally at the federal government, at these most important agencies and thinking about: How can we do a better job to protect our nation's workers?

And that is at the core of the work that this task force was charged with doing, understanding that federal workers -- in particular, government workers, public service professionals -- do their work on behalf of the public, usually on behalf of people they never have known, may never even meet. They do their work every day tirelessly on behalf of people who may never know their names but will forever be benefited because of that work.

We are proud, as the Biden-Harris administration, in what we believe we will be, which is the most pro-union administration in the history of America. And our work includes not only the work of this task force, but the work of creating good union jobs through the Build Back Better Agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.

We intend to do everything we can to help pass the Richard L. Trumka Protecting the Right to Organize Act, also known as the "PRO Act." And we intend to use our executive authority to lift up workers through this task force and to highlight the nobility of their work.

And let's just think about who our federal workers are: Our federal workers are nurses who care for our veterans. Our federal workers are firefighters who keep our national forests safe. I've talked to so many of them.

Also, in terms of the work they've been doing, in particular in the western states, fighting these incredible wildfires that are damaging whole communities, if not wiping out whole communities.

Who are our federal workers? They're scientists who have been working to ensure that products are safe and -- and to discover breakthroughs. We've seen the incredible work of them, in terms of what we've seen during the pandemic, which really highlights the importance and the nobility of people who have dedicated themselves to public service, to doing the work that is about ensuring the public good.

So, we want to thank everyone for this. Our administration has been working to help folks, in particular in the federal government, organize and collectively bargain.

And there are two main reasons. We believe that a stronger workforce is the work that will happen to create actually higher productivity and lower turnover. We also believe that this is about respecting the dignity of all work and respecting the dignity of workers.

Second, we're doing this because we believe and know that workers are entitled to be paid wages commensurate with their value. The dignity of work must be recognized. The value of that work must be recognized in every way. That is not just about thanking somebody for doing their job, but actually paying them commensurate with the value of their job.

So, this is our approach to the -- the task force. And basically, for the President and me and so many of us -- Marty -- all of us who have dedicated ourselves to public service -- this is the work of recognizing the importance of the work, the impact it can have on our entire nation, and the importance then of protecting the workers to do it.

So, today we are announcing two new administration policies that will help improve, basically, what we must do to protect workers but specifically to remove barriers to organizing in the federal workplace.

And so, one, we -- as it relates to new hires -- have decided and are committed to making sure that they will be told at the time of being hired if they are eligible to join a union. They will be given contact information. And they will be informed of their rights.

We'd like to believe that this happens every time, but we know it doesn't. So, this is something we're announcing today, which is a new policy from our administration to help remove barriers to organizing in the workplace. Because if folks don't know their rights, if they're not informed of their rights, how can they fight to protect their rights? How can we enforce those rights?

The second is, as it relates to current workers, we're going to ensure that all current workers are reminded that they are eligible to join a union.

So, for current workers, we're going to ensure that they are reminded if they are eligible to join a union. Because, again, we have folks who have been working in the federal government for years who, during the course of that time, may not have been informed. And we want to make sure that they know now if they didn't know before.

And all of this is just part of our broader strategy to make the federal government a model employer. And we call on all employers to make similar steps in doing the work of protecting workers, because we recognize the nobility of the work.

The federal government is the largest employer in the United States of America. We know that this effort is going to impact, therefore, a lot of people. But we also know that, by example, we can hopefully encourage all workplaces, all industries to look at what is in the best interest of productivity; in the best interest of morale; and in the best interest, of course, of, again, valuing the dignity of work.

So, in that way, we do believe this is not only going to impact a large number of people who make up the federal workforce, but this will be a model of what all industries have the capacity and the ability, if not the imperative, to do.

And with that, I want to now introduce an incredible public servant -- our Labor Secretary, Marty Walsh.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Madam Prime Minister, welcome. It is my great honor to welcome you. The relationship between the United States and Barbados is a very important one.

Also, the relationship between the United States and CARICOM is an important one. And your role of leadership there has been, I think, very significant in making clear the importance of the region and the importance of the relationship.

As you know -- and I think about and talk about all the time -- I truly believe that our world is interconnected and interdependent more so than ever before, as highlighted by most the recent events, including the pandemic, but also as highlighted by one of the greatest crises that we face as a globe, which is the climate crisis.

Our conversation today will, I believe, cover a number of these issues, including not only what we must do in the short term, but the potential that our relationship has in the long term to address these issues in a way that has positive impact for the people of our two countries.

Since our diplomatic relations began 55 years ago, the relationship between the United States and Barbados has continued to grow. And, of course, we take very seriously, as the United States, our membership as neighbors in the Western Hemisphere.

And it is in that spirit that we do the work that we do together, including the work we will do to continue to address the COVID-19 pandemic.

We've already donated, I think, over a million doses of vaccine to the region with a promise of 3 million more at least.

The work that we are doing together is to strengthen the economy of the region. You and I briefly spoke about that before we walked in here, and that'll be the subject of our discussion this afternoon.

And then, of course, what we can do to assist in our collective determination to make sure that the people of our countries are able to live in a way that they're able to prosper and be safe. To that end, we have a longstanding relationship with Barbados, as it relates to the safety of the region and the fighting of drug trafficking and transnational criminal organizations.

Madam Prime Minister, I also applaud your commitment -- and you've been an outspoken leader on the issue of human rights and LGBTQ rights; your outspoken leadership, in terms of combating climate change, and also what you have done to highlight that not all countries are equal on this issue, including an understanding of who are the greatest emitters and who are actually receiving the impact of it -- being some of the lowest emitters. It is a fair point that you raise over and over again, and one that we will discuss this afternoon.

And then finally, I will say again that the relationship between the United States and CARICOM is a very important one, which we intend, as an administration -- and I was just with President Biden, who, of course, expresses his welcome to you --

PRIME MINISTER MOTTLEY: Thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: -- it is an important relationship that we intend to strengthen.

So, welcome and thank you.

PRIME MINISTER MOTTLEY: Thank you. Thank you very much, Vice President Harris. I really want to say how happy I am, with my delegation, to be here to meet with you and your staff today. We, too, believe that we have a strong relationship between our two countries and between our region. And it's best captured and often referred to as "a neighborhood."

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Yes.

PRIME MINISTER MOTTLEY: And we have a good neighborhood, and we are ever conscious that good neighbors must be neighborly. And to that extent, we feel therefore that there is much that we can work together on, looking to see where both countries can help each other.

In many instances, we have traditionally provided persons who have come here to work, who have made their living -- you know it only too well. And that has been the promise of the America for the rest of the -- the American region for decades.

By the same token, we face common threats together. And the world perhaps has never been more precariously placed in decades than it is now.

And to the extent that we can cooperate and work together with respect to fighting the pandemic, for fighting the climate crisis, for fighting security threats, and for promoting prosperity as a basis for the engagement of all of us, then I believe that we can go forward.

I'd like to thank -- on behalf of not just Barbados, but the Caribbean community -- the donations made by the government and people of the United States of America with respect to the vaccines. They were timely. We do -- and hopeful we will receive the others soon.

This battle is real for us in the Caribbean, as I speak to you. And at the same time, we're conscious that there has to be vaccine equity across the world. Because if not, we run the risk -- as has happened with Delta and the other mutations -- of other mutations coming to bear.

Similarly, we are also conscious that as we go to Glasgow, that there is a distinct risk, regrettably, that the world might not make the 1.5 degrees that we need to survive in the region. If that happens, then the conversation has to change seriously to be about adaptation, because we have to adapt to that new reality, which can literally be upon us anywhere from 12 to 20 years.

And to that extent, therefore, you're dealing with a region that has been constantly evolving and constantly responding to one-size-fits-all prescriptions -- from the establishment of the WTO that precluded us from being able to benefit from special and differential treatment; to, today, where, on this climate crisis battle, we are on the front line, but, as you quite correctly said, we're not responsible for causing it.

What it does lament is that the absence of an understanding of what is needed for adaptation is going to hurt us because time is of the essence now if the world passes 1.5 degrees.

With respect to security -- well, I don't need to say any more; we're in the same neighborhood. And anybody who lives in the same neighborhood, whether it is in a village or a city or a state, we have to work together to keep each other safe.

And safety is fundamentally what it is about now. A hundred years ago, the world faced similar circumstances and the world rose to the occasion after 20, 25 years. And it led to the establishment of the United Nations and the Bretton Woods Institutions.

We are at a similar moment in time now. And while we may not need to create new institutions, we may need to repurpose the existing ones.

So, I want to thank you. I look forward to the further, deeper conversations and to really building a relationship.

And at a very personal level, we've said to you and I've said to you that Shirley Chisholm is a Barbadian. That she was the first African American congresswoman is something of which all Barbadians are proud. That she became the first African American woman to run for a major political party and a presidential nomination is also something of which we are proud.

But perhaps more than all of that, we're proud not just because of her courage, but because of her message. And her message was one that required equality of opportunity and protection of the vulnerable. It is the philosophy that binds us still today.

And at the very personal level, I know that both you and I have celebrated firsts. But in both cases, we've said, "We've not come to be the first, but we've come to ensure that we are not the last."

Thank you very much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Foreign Minister Lapid, welcome. It is good to see you again. The last time we saw each other was in 2017 at the Knesset, when I was there in Israel. And it is my honor to welcome you during this visit. We have a lot to discuss.

But, most importantly, is -- this occasion is an occasion, yet again, to reaffirm the strength and the endurance of the relationship between the United States and Israel -- a relationship that is unwavering, a relationship that is based on shared values, shared history, and a shared concern for the mutual safety and security of the people of our two countries. So, welcome.

We will also discuss, of course, what we must do to strengthen those relationships and to strengthen, in particular, security concerns that Israel always has had and continues to have, and our commitment to ensure the security of the people of Israel.

We will discuss a number of other issues that include also shared prosperity for the people of our countries; as well as we will discuss the issue of peace, security, and prosperity for Palestinians as well as Israelis, and, of course, the regional challenges that we face and our shared concern as it relates to Iran and as it relates to our support for the Abraham Accords and, of course, as it relates to Israel's relationship with your neighbors. And again, the Abraham Accords is something that the President and I strongly support.

And we thank you, again, for this visit. And I look forward to our conversation.

FOREIGN MINISTER LAPID: Thank you so much, Madam Vice President. I'm happy to be here with one of the best friends Israel has in Washington -- a leader that's been next to us in all the important struggles, and we can always count on -- we could always count on you in the difficult moments.

And this friendship is based on shared values on democracy, liberty, human rights, the respect to those who are different from you, wherever they come from. And even when we have differences, know that our goal is common, which is to see Israel strong, secure, and thriving.

And we also believe, all of us, as you said, that the Palestinians are entitled to have a quality of life in economy, in education, and hope.

And the dialogue between us is always based on facts. And when we met in Israel, it's because you came to see with your own eyes the difficulties and understand the complexities so you know us and we know you. And this explains the strength of the bond.

It's true that the center of my visit is the Iranian nuclear program, but it deals with one more thing, which is strengthening the bipartisan relation with the next generation of young Americans. And this generation is not only preoccupied with wars and conflict, but also with the climate crisis, the global immigration crisis, and questions of identity.

And in order to build a strategy for the next hundred years, we need to explore together those issues and to shape together a new world, new global architecture.

So, Madam Vice President, thank you for the friendship and thank you for the seriousness, and thank you for long-lasting years of supporting Israel's security and Israel's democracy.

Thank you so much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you. Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Chairperson Aaron Payment. It is so good to see you. And good morning to everyone.

Thank you -- all of you, everyone -- for your incredible leadership -- the courage of your leadership, the tenacity of your leadership -- and most importantly, for your commitment to building a strong nation-to-nation relationship with our administration.

President Joe Biden and I believe that the bond between our nations is sacred, and we take seriously our responsibility to one another. It is an honor, of course, to be with you this week as we celebrate Indigenous Peoples' Day, as we speak truth about our nation's history.

Since 1934, every October, the United States has recognized the voyage of the European explorers who first landed on the shores of the Americas. But that is not the whole story. That has never been the whole story.

Those explorers ushered in a wave of devastation for Tribal nations -- perpetrating violence, stealing land, and spreading disease.

We must not shy away from this shameful past, and we must shed light on it and do everything we can to address the impact of the past on Native communities today.

Today, we know that Native women and girls are missing and murdered at alarming rates. This is an epidemic, and it must end.

Today, we also know that Native American voters are being systematically denied access to the ballot box, which is why we must pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.

We also know that Native Americans serve at the highest levels of our nation's government, that Native Americans serve in our nation's military at the highest rates of any group, that Native Americans do the work that we know is essential to make our nation work.

And still, Native Americans are more likely to live in poverty, to be unemployed, and often struggle to get quality healthcare and to find affordable housing.

This persistent inequity, this persistent injustice is not right. And the pandemic has only made it worse.

I believe strongly that we, right now, have the chance to change things, to improve things, to be better for this generation and for the seven generations to come. Because I believe that we are at the beginning of a new era and a moment of incredible transformation.

As we work to rebuild our economy, as we work to restore our democracy, we have the opportunity to build a better future together.

At this very minute, our administration is working with Democrats and Republicans and independents in Congress to pass the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and we are confident that we will get it done. This bill represents the largest infrastructure investment our nation has made since before World War Two, and presents, right now, an important opportunity to strengthen Indian Country.

It would set aside funding for Tribal bridge projects and the Tribal Transportation Program. It would provide Native communities with funding to build out brand-new water infrastructure and connect Native communities with high-speed Internet, all while creating good union jobs -- millions of good union jobs.

And as Native communities have led for generations upon generation on protecting our environment, I should also mention that this bill would also put millions of dollars toward making sure our communities are resilient in the face of climate change.

At the same time, our administration is working to pass a budget that reflects the values of our nation, that invests in those communities that have long gone overlooked.

Our Build Back agenda -- Build Back Better -- will have a significant impact on Indian Country.

As Native American families struggle to find affordable care in their area, our agenda would lower childcare and eldercare costs.

Our agenda would lower healthcare costs and housing costs. And it would cut taxes for families with children by extending the Child Tax Credit for years to come.

Together, [with] our American Rescue Plan and our Build Back Better Agenda, [which] will have provided more than $31 billion for Native communities -- our Infrastructure and Jobs Act and our Build Back Better Agenda represent the largest investment in Indian Country in our history.

More than a point of pride, this is a sign of our administration's respect for our nation-to-nation relationship.

And to that point, I am very proud to announce right here today that our administration is reopening our memorandum of agreement on the 477 Program.

And, I don't need to tell you, this program gives Tribes the power to make decisions about how best to integrate and deliver federal services within your Nations.

I know that this is an action that many of you have asked for, and I am optimistic that, together, we will be able to renegotiate this agreement to support Tribal sovereignty.

So, let me end with a quick story. Back in July, in my Ceremonial Office, Secretary Deb Haaland and I had a conversation with Native American leaders on our fight for voting rights and to protect the right to vote, which is, of course, another important aspect of the work we are doing together.

At the end of our conversation, they presented me with

a beautiful star quilt of red, white, and blue made by members of the Oglala Sioux Nation. They wrapped it around me and honored me with a blessing. It was a moment I will never forget. It is a moment I will always cherish.

And so, as I leave you today, it is my prayer that, as one family, we seize this moment in our shared history to bring about shared prosperity.

May we protect the future of our children and their children for generations to come. And may that future ground us and guide us always.

Thank you, each and every one of you. And may God bless you. And may God bless America. Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, it is my great honor to welcome -- to officially welcome, at my invitation, my Divine Nine family and these great national and international leaders.

We have so much to discuss, and I'm looking forward to our conversation. But this invitation has been made -- it was made even before we arrived at the White House, understanding the historic, the current, and the future roles of leadership that members of each of the Divine Nine organizations play in every sector of our society and in every way, both historically, currently, and in the future.

And for the President and for me, it is very important that we collaborate with our leaders, knowing that we face so many challenges as a country, knowing that we are entering, in many ways, a new era where those challenges are taking on great significance. But also, in the midst of those challenges, we see opportunities not only for engagement, but for improvement.

And so, I have asked these Divine Nine leaders to come in to share with me your thoughts about the work that we are doing and the work we can continue to do to uplift and to reach out to all the people of our nation, understanding our capacity to always engage and to empower and to improve as a nation. So, I thank you all.

And for those who do not know, it is leaders, historically and currently, of the Divine Nine who have been national leaders on issues like voting rights.

You know, I was reminded and recently saw a photograph, black and white -- I believe it was President Truman -- but a group of Black sororities who met in the White House as suffragettes, talking about the need to ensure voting rights for the women of America. The leaders of the fraternities of the Divine Nine who had a vision for what the civil rights movement should and could be, and then led that movement.

I think about the leaders of industry, the leaders of our private sector, the leaders of innovation, and all those are represented by these organizations.

And as we move forward, we are also, as an administration, working to build back better. We have some legislation that we are proposing and working on that would invest in a number of sectors of our society that will produce great growth. One of them is our HBCUs. And, of course, we have great presence, as each of the Divine Nine organizations at our HBCUs, as well as many other academic institutions. And so, we're going to talk a bit about that and what we can do to work together to support our HBCU students and graduates.

There is a challenge right now in our nation, as we all know, with those who would attack voting rights. As the great Coretta Scott King reminded us, the fight for civil rights must be fought and won with each generation. And -- and that fight then remains. And it has, again, been Divine Nine leaders who have been the leaders in that fight and in that struggle.

And -- and we know that that is front and center for us when we look at what's happening in places like Texas and Georgia. And so I'm looking forward to the conversation that we will have about our continuing role to organize and uplift folks around their constitutional rights. And -- and, in short, on that piece, what we can do together to push for the enactment, the passage of the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Act.

And finally, again, I want to welcome each one of you and thank you for the work that you do, the work of your members. And at this table are representatives of organizations that have formed and shaped who we are as a nation, have challenged us to live up to our ideals. And in that way, I'm very honored to receive you in this ceremonial office of the Vice President of the United States. So, welcome.

And I'm looking forward to our conversation. Thank you all.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: So, today, I have asked American business leaders to join me here to have a discussion about the economy of our country and one of the most important foundations of the economy of our country, which is our small businesses.

Our small business leaders -- they at this table and the many that they represent -- really are part of the backbone of our country, not only in terms of our economy -- it is also the case that our small business leaders, our civic leaders, they are community leaders. The businesses they lead not only employ people from communities, not only train and support people within those communities, but they are also part of the fabric of the culture of the communities in which they exist and reflective of the culture of the communities in which they do their business and/or work.

And so, I asked these leaders, who happen to all be women -- (laughter) -- and also, on the occasion of our honoring every day -- every day of the year, but in particular this month, Hispanic Heritage Month -- to talk with me about the work they are doing, but also the challenges that they face and the work we can do together.

Our administration cares deeply about the issue of what we can do to not only strengthen our economy, but to support small businesses. One of the areas that I've been focused on with a great deal of attention is what we do to increase access to capital for our small businesses, with a particular emphasis on minority- and women-owned small businesses, who among our small businesses have historically faced the greatest challenges, in terms of access to capital.

So, we will talk about that. We will talk about the challenge that all working people face when it comes to a structure around them that supports their desire and intention to work, which is: Are the structures around them designed in such a way to give them the support to work, whether it be to own and run a small business or work in a small business?

An example of that point is our care economy, and what are we doing in terms of childcare and eldercare. What do we need to do more in terms of having a system that says paid family leave is in the best interest of the business and the community and its workers? These are the kinds of issues that we will discuss.

But these leaders represent everything from smaller to larger small businesses. We have, in this room, the leaders of a restaurant group, a construction company, an architectural design firm, a 200-plus-employee childcare center, an IT consulting firm, and so much more.

And we have convened these leaders also with the intention of making it clear that when we're talking about Hispanic small businesses and business leaders, we are talking about every kind of business -- ranging, again, from architectural to IT to all of the things that require us to actually be productive as a society.

And so I want to make a point of emphasizing that our focus on these businesses is about a focus across our economy in the very disciplines and the variety of disciplines that are necessary to have a productive society.

And the solutions that our administration is offering are present in our philosophy and theory and policies across a wide range but, in particular, as it related to this week and the coming weeks, in our infrastructure plan -- the Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan; present in the Build Back Better plan.

And so, on the access to capital piece, also was present in the American Rescue Plan, which included $30 billion going to small businesses, including $28 billion in the restaurant fund, and $7 billion for PPP, and $100 million for programs to help small businesses navigate the system.

In terms of our Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, that was about helping folks competitive and understanding that an investment in roads and transit and Internet -- and let's remember that, especially when we're talking about, demographically, who has access to Internet, we know that certain communities are disproportionately left out of that access, and the Hispanic community is one of them. And that means an impact not only on our children's ability to do their homework, but a business's ability to run.

And then, on the issue of allowing and supporting our businesses to stay competitive, there's the Build Back Better plan, which is about lowering costs for things like childcare, elder care. It is about cutting taxes for families with children through the Child Tax Credit. And creating jobs -- and that's about workforce training and apprenticeships, which is about upskilling workers and allowing them to meet their potential with a lot of the support that all people require to do just that.

So, I'm looking forward to our conversation. I welcome you. I want to particularly thank Congresswoman Barragán for your longstanding leadership in the United States Congress on these issues and so many more.

And we will now begin our discussion. But welcome, again, to all of you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you to our Department of Health and Human Services Director, Loyce Pace. And good afternoon to all of you. It is truly an honor to be with you today.

As global leaders, each and every one of us has gathered here knowing that we are in a fight for our shared future. And the discussions happening today will shape what our world looks like not only today, but tomorrow. So, thank you to all of you for taking the time to join in this important meeting.

So, as I've said many times, I do believe that our world is embarking on a new era. The global pandemic was a turning point and, indeed, a tipping point. These past 19 months have revealed systemic flaws and reminded us of our collective resolve.

If we were not clear before, we know now: Our world is more interconnected, our world is more interdependent than ever before. And therefore, the only way to move forward, the smartest way to move forward, is together.

The task before us now is great. You have heard from President Joe Biden about what we must do to vaccinate our world -- all of us working on that together -- so that we can end this pandemic.

In addition, my focus today is to talk about what we must do to prepare for the next, because the truth is: The work to end this pandemic and prepare for the next is a strategic imperative. It is essential to our security and to our shared prosperity, and it will save countless lives.

However, at this moment, we must also agree that our world is not fully prepared to prevent, to detect, and to respond to future biological threats.

Indeed, we are taking some important actions to ready nations by strengthening health systems and supporting health workers.

But unless we establish a new financing mechanism, in my view, we will never be fully prepared.

Since the spring, I've been calling for such a mechanism. Italy too, as the President of the G20, has raised the need for financing.

And over the past months, our nations have met. And we have reviewed the reports. We have heard from the experts. And they have confirmed yet again: There is not enough funding to adequately prepare for future biological threats.

Friends, I do believe -- I know we know this is a stark warning, and it should be a wake-up call for all of us.

Disease surveillance, vaccine development, vaccine delivery, healthcare worker support -- nations need greater capacity, and they need it now.

In this new era, preparedness is a necessity. And it requires sustained and predictable funding that is on top of the emergency response mechanisms that already exist.

We need to act so that our world will be ready to respond before, and not after, the next pandemic emerges.

This pandemic caught us off guard, and it should not have. We have learned the cost of failing to prepare. With every death, we have learned all too much the seriousness of that cost. And it is time, then, to act.

And so, the United States joins the call for a new Financial Intermediary Fund at the World Bank, which will help us bring together new resources for pandemic preparedness.

And today, I am proud to announce that we -- the United States -- are prepared to contribute at least $250 million to help get this fund started. We have also requested an additional $850 million from the United States Congress. But again, it's going to take all of us to get this work done.

We are issuing a call to action to countries and corporations from around the world to join us in this effort. And we have a collective goal of reaching $10 billion at the outset. And let's put this in context: That is a fraction of a percent of global GDP.

We invite the nations gathered here to help us meet this, as some would say, ambitious, but I believe achievable, goal. We also see an important role and responsibility for the private sector. Those who can must do everything we can.

The Financial Intermediary Fund is an important step to build stronger, more resilient health systems, and ultimately to save lives. But it is just one step.

The pandemic laid bare the flaws within our systems and structures. As I've said many times, the fund will help address our capacity to prepare. However, to avoid the mistakes of the past and meet this present moment, we must also ensure transparency and accountability to ensure that all countries meet our global health obligations.

To that end, the United States also supports a Global Health Threats Council that would monitor progress and identify gaps. It is yet another step we must take to ensure that political leaders remain committed to the goal of preparedness.

Generations from now, I believe we will all be able to look back to this very moment, at the start of this new era, as the moment when our world joined together to realize a better future -- a future in which all nations have equal capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to biological threats and are equally held to account; a moment when we join together to build a future in which all nations have strong and resilient health systems that all people can access; a future in which we can stop biological threats before they start.

This future is possible. If we work together, I do believe we can and we will make it possible. Thank you all again, and let us go forth together.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Laura, thank you for that. And where is Olivia? Congratulations! Congratulations. How about that? (Applause.) And give your brother Simon my best, okay? Thank him for his courage.

So, thank you all. It's so wonderful to be here. And thank you for telling your story and sharing your story. That -- I know it takes a lot out of you, but your story is, sadly, a common story, which is how families struggle, but also the strength that families show in the midst of that struggle that inspires so many others. So, thank you for your inspiration.

Vincent Keane, Dr. Jessica Henderson Boyd, thank you for all that you do, and thank you for welcoming us this morning.

And on this National Health Center Week, let me thank all of the healthcare workers, the technicians, the administrators, the custodians, nurses and doctors who keep our community health centers running and keep our community health centers as part of the fabric and the trusted centers of leadership in our communities.

It's so good to be here, and it is wonderful to be with you because there is so much to talk about that is based on the work that you all do every day.

And we are talking about healthcare -- an issue that is as personal as it is important.

President Joe Biden and I believe that healthcare, for that reason, must be a right -- not a privilege, a right -- to which all people are entitled.

We also believe healthcare, in the form of health insurance, must be affordable for all Americans. Affordable health insurance gives people the opportunity to determine their own future.

You know, I believe strongly in this concept of self-determination -- the importance of allowing people the ability to have control of their own lives, to make the decisions that are relevant to themselves and their families.

And on this issue of affordable health insurance, this is one of those points. When people have affordable health insurance, they have the opportunity to make decisions about their life. They have options.

But without affordable health insurance, those options are limited, and life can then be daunting. Let's think about the parent sitting in a hospital parking lot with their sick child, terrified. As she or he is sitting in the car, the child is in the backseat -- they're in the parking lot, looking at those sliding glass doors of the emergency room, pausing because they know if they walk into those sliding glass doors and walk into that emergency room without health insurance, they may be out as much as $4,000.

So they're there with a sick child, having to make a decision about literally whether they can afford to keep their home or be homeless or get their child the medical help that child needs. That's just not right. That's just not right. And nobody should have to go through that.

And that is why the Affordable Care Act is so important. More than 30 million people have health insurance coverage because of the Affordable Care Act. You know, they called it "Obamacare" also. Thirty million people. More people today are covered through the Affordable Care Act than ever before.

And President Joe Biden and I are purposely and intentionally building on its success to further bring down healthcare costs.

In February, we made the decision to open a special enrollment period through Healthcare.gov -- you know I came with a website -- (laughter) -- Healthcare.gov -- so that all Americans would have the opportunity to sign up for health coverage.

And, today, I am proud to announce that because of that, more than two and a half million people, since then, have signed up for health coverage. Two and a half million people.

That is two and a half million people who can rest easier knowing that they can go to the doctor without taking on debt or, Heaven forbid, if there is a sudden accident or illness, that they can get the care they need.

And I don't need to tell anybody here, this is especially important now while we are in the middle of a major public health crisis.

You know, a lot of people put off going to the doctor this past year because of the pandemic. People missed their regular appointments, but -- be it for a mammogram or just checkups in terms of their progress, in terms of cancer. Some had to ignore the symptoms and the signs and the pain that they were experiencing because of that.

And people without health insurance could continue to suffer. And that is why we are encouraging everyone to sign up.

On Sunday, August 15th, the Special Enrollment period will end. On Sunday, August 15th, the Special Enrollment period will end; that's six days from today. So if you need health insurance, please visit Healthcare.gov. Do not wait. Sign up today.

And now, we know that when people have the opportunity to sign up, they do. And that is why we're here today and why we have to continue to get the word out over these next six days.

The demand is there, by the way. The demand is there. We saw that when we extended the open enrollment period and two and a half million people signed up. So, this is the thing that we do know: People want affordable health coverage, but we just have to make it accessible and we have to let them know it's available.

So, through our American Rescue Plan, we have lowered healthcare costs. With new tax cuts and Healthcare.gov, consumers have seen their premiums drop by an average of 40 percent. For folks returning to the exchange, that is an average savings of $40 a month. For a family of four, that is almost $2,000 a year. And that financial freedom can make all the difference.

America, the President and I are just getting started. This week, the Senate will begin to vote on our administration's Build Back Better Agenda, and a big part of that agenda is lowering healthcare costs.

The tax cuts that I just mentioned are giving our nation's families much-needed relief. Our administration is pushing Congress to extend those cuts to keep premiums low. If we are able -- together -- to do that, 4 million additional people will get covered. Four million additional people. And the 9 million people currently saving money will keep saving money.

But if we do not extend these tax cuts, people will lose out and they will probably lose their coverage. So, we have to get this done.

We also must work together to call on Congress to advance other components of our Build Back Better agenda:

To expand Medicaid in every state -- to expand Medicaid in every state. People live in every state; that's the logic. (Laughs.)

To include dental, vision, and hearing services with Medicare coverage. You know, I don't have to tell you how much and how expensive that is, especially for our seniors. And it's all about their ability -- again, back to that point about self-determination -- to be able to be independent, to be able to enjoy life. But with, you know, hearing aids costing thousands of dollars -- being shut out of what they are entitled to have in terms of a quality of life.

And to change the law then, which is what we need to do, so that we can finally negotiate lower prescription drug prices for seniors and families.

These are the things we are urging Congress to do. And I don't need to tell you it's long overdue. So, I do believe we can get this done. I know we can get this done.

And this brings me back to you, to the importance of our community health centers. Community health centers are a testament to our ability to accomplish big things and build on those accomplishments.

Community health centers began in the 1960s as part of President Lyndon Baines Johnson's War on Poverty. Sadly, that War on Poverty was short-lived. But there were some important components which lasted, including community health centers.

And then decades later, President George W. Bush built on President Johnson's vision, pushing for a major expansion of the community health center program.

And then, fast forward to President Obama and then-Vice President Joe Biden, who increased the funding for community health centers during their administration.

And now our administration has provided $6 billion to community health centers.

And I'll tell you why: You provide a critical service. You keep our families healthy. You provide a place where people know they will be treated with dignity and with respect, which all human beings deserve.

They know they will walk in these doors and be in a safe place without judgement, where they can be -- especially for any of us when we're talking about healthcare -- can be vulnerable and, at the same time, be treated in a way that helps alleviate pain and extend life.

This is the work you all do every day. It is an incredible gift that you have and give. And I know it takes great sacrifice to do this work -- and especially over this last year and a half.

So, on behalf of the President and me, we thank you -- on behalf of our country and all our communities -- for the work you do.

And let us remember that as we work to lower healthcare costs, it is also the work of saying, "I see you. I hear you. We are all in this together." And in that way, we will be stronger as a community when we touch and have impact on all communities. Our society benefits and our country benefits.

So, thank you all for the work you do. Please -- to everybody -- let's pass out and pass on the information. Sign up for coverage at Healthcare.gov by August 15th.

And with that, again, I say thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless America. Thank you all very much. (Applause.) Thank you.


